claim_id	claim	label	claim_url	reason	categories	speaker	checker	tags	article_title	publish_date	claim_date
0	This week, the Supreme Court upheld a critical part of the Affordable Care Act that allows people to get subsidies when they buy insurance on the federal exchange. The decision came down to four words, which the plaintiffs argued allowed only people buying insurance through state-based marketplaces, like Minnesota’s MNsure, to get the money. Minnesota’s Washington, D.C., delegation was split on the ruling, with Republicans opposing it and Democrats applauding it. This week, PoliGraph looked at claims on both sides of the issue.  	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/06/poligraph-claims-about-obamacare/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Claims about Obamacare	June 26, 2015, 2:08 PM	None
1	The 2015 legislative session is over, and Republicans are touting the fact that they were able to keep spending low. Here’s what House Speaker Kurt Daudt said in the hours following the end of the special session. “I’m proud to say, upon enactment, our budget will have the third lowest percent increase in general fund spending in over 50 years.” Daudt is correct, but his statement deserves some context.  	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/06/poligraph-daudt-spending-claim-mostly-true/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Daudt spending claim mostly true	June 19, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
2	The legislative session may be over, but that doesn’t mean we’ll stop hearing about pre-kindergarten any time soon. The issue was a major flashpoint between Gov. Mark Dayton’s administration and legislators, including DFLers in the Senate. It came down to this: Should the Legislature set aside millions to fund pre-kindergarten in all public schools or boost overall school spending and target other dollars to families who are least likely to be able to afford quality early education? Ultimately, Dayton and legislators settled on the latter option, passing a $17 billion education bill. But in the final hours of the special session, Rep. Tony Cornish, R-Vernon Center, said the money isn’t well spent in the first place. “It’s a great babysitting service. But you have no empirical evidence to prove that pre-K doesn’t wear off by third or fourth grade,” he said during debate over the bill. Cornish is relying on one study, though reputable, to make his case while ignoring a pile of conflicting evidence. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/06/poligraph-cornish-pre-k-claim-misses-mark/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Cornish pre-K claim misses mark	June 17, 2015, 2:04 PM	None
3	By now you have probably heard of Minnesota’s State Auditor. That’s because a change in the state auditor’s responsibilities was, at least for a few days, the main reason legislators hadn’t met yet for a special session. Because of a law that passed during the regular session, counties can outsource their audits to accounting firms instead of having the state auditor’s office do the work. Rep. Sarah Anderson, R- Plymouth, who sponsored the state government funding bill, which included the change, said the idea is to save counties money. State Auditor Rebecca Otto says the change will gut her office, and she plans to take the issue to court.  PoliGraph looked at claims on both sides of the issue and found a concrete answer to be elusive. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/06/poligraph-truth-elusive-in-state-auditor-claims/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Truth elusive in state auditor claims	June 12, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
4	Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, D-Vt., brought his populist message to Minneapolis last Sunday. His speech, which he gave to mark the start of his campaign here, focused largely on income inequality. PoliGraph looked at two statements Sanders made and found that, while Sanders tends toward hyperbole, his claims were mostly backed by facts.  “In America today, we have more income and wealth inequality than any other major industrialized country on earth.” This line is standard fare in Sanders’ speeches, and not too long ago, FactCheck.org said it was an exaggeration. Since then, Sanders has fine-tuned his rhetoric a bit, saying America has the worst income and wealth inequality of any other industrialized nation on earth. By adding that qualifier, Sanders comes closer to the truth, but a lot depends on how you define industrialized countries. A Sanders spokesman pointed to a recent CNN article that said Israel and the U.S. are at the top of the list when it comes to income inequality. Other rankings put the U.S. in a similar position. According a report by the Credit Suisse Research, the U.S. is near the top of wealth inequality, too. But using a list of “advanced” or industrialized nations from the World Factbook, which is published by the Central intelligence Agency, the U.S. is outranked by Turkey and Hong Kong. Different sources use different standards for defining industrialized nations and income inequality, but Sanders is mostly correct in his statement: The U.S. is near the top of income and wealth inequality rankings when it comes to industrialized nations. “The truth is that unemployment in America is not 5.4 percent…. If you include those people who have given up looking for work, and those people who are working part time, real unemployment in America today is close to 11 percent.” Sanders is right that national unemployment is 5.4 percent. And Sanders is correct that the national unemployment rate doesn’t tell the whole story. For instance, the official unemployment rate doesn’t include people who are discouraged from looking for work, or who are marginally attached to the work force. Those people are captured in a separate statistic that also includes people who are working part-time but say they would like to be working more. Right now, this figure is roughly 11 percent. Politicians on the left and right have often pointed to the “U-6,” the technical term used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as the “real” unemployment rate. But the BLS routinely pushes back on that description in part because it does include people who are employed part time. Sanders is clearly using a higher number to make a political point. But what he does get right is the fact that the U.S. employment outlook is more complicated than just one number. And the U-6 is a legitimate figure sometimes used by politicians and economists to paint a broader picture of economy. As a result, this part of Sanders speech leans toward accurate as well. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/06/poligraph-sanders-claims-about-inequality/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Sanders claims about inequality	June 5, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
5	The 2015 session will be remembered as the one when Gov. Mark Dayton and the Legislature couldn’t come to terms on education funding. Dayton vetoed the education bill. Dayton wants $150 million more in the K-12 education bill to support pre-kindergarten programs in public schools. Republicans and some DFLers say the additional $400 million they put into education should be enough. Most of it is going to the per pupil formula. It’s an issue that has pitted Dayton against members of his own party, and underscores a fundamental difference in how many Democrats and Republicans view the issue of early learning.  Many on the right say that, in addition to giving schools more money across the board, extra cash should be invested in early learning scholarships for low-income students, which gives parents a choice in where their kids start their education. (The funding bill includes money for this program, too.) On the left, many believe that to level the playing field for all kids, early education should be free and offered universally in public schools. This week, PoliGraph looked at two essential arguments on either side of the debate. The impasse sets the Legislature up for a special session to renegotiate a deal before July 1, when the new fiscal year begins and the state’s education department would shut down without annual funding. Republicans say Minnesota’s school administrators oppose Dayton’s pre-K plan. Dayton’s proposed expansion would be voluntary and for only half the day. Some school superintendents do oppose the idea. For instance, the Association of Metropolitan School Districts, which represents schools in the Twin Cities area, said universal pre-kindergarten “is a worthy goal.” “But our school districts need time to secure the necessary classroom space and licensed staff, develop transportation plans, provide staff training, and be prepared to serve pre-kindergarten students with special needs,” wrote AMSD executive director Scott Croonquist in a letter to House Education Finance Chair Rep. Jenifer Loon, R-Eden Prairie earlier this month. Instead, Croonquist’s group supports more funding for the per pupil formula – which is what the bill sent to Dayton includes – and higher investments in the School Readiness program, which serves 3 and 4 year olds who are underprepared for kindergarten. Similar views are shared by the Minnesota School Boards Association, individual administrators across the state, and even Dayton’s Early Learning Council, which suggested some of the money should be invested in the early education scholarship program. The Minnesota Association of School Administrators has a more nuanced view on the issue. Executive Director Gary Amoroso said his group supports Dayton’s call for $150 million more. But it would like to see much of it added to the formula, with an undefined expansion of early childhood learning coming next. Amoroso said he doesn’t view the issue as a divide between Dayton and the superintendents. However, some superintendents do support Dayton’s proposal. They include Julia Espe, who is superintendent of Princeton’s Public Schools. She wrote in a letter to legislators that “universal pre-K for 4-year-olds will help us with our core mission–educating every single student… Why can’t we provide this strategy to close the achievement gap when the state has a surplus?” Espe’s views were echoed by superintendents in Bloomington, Maplewood and South St. Paul, among other places. Dayton says universal pre-kindergarten in public schools will help close the achievement gap. At the core of Dayton’s argument is that expanding pre-kindergarten to public schools will give all kids a better start in life. Dayton has cause for concern. Minnesota ranks last among 41 states when it comes to access to state pre-kindergarten programs and Minnesota ranks high when it comes to daycare and pre-kindergarten costs. And the state’s achievement gap between white students and students of color remains stubbornly wide. Meanwhile, there’s some consensus among early learning experts that students, regardless of race and economic background, who attend high quality pre-kindergarten do better in school and in life, said Milagros Nores, who is Associate Director of Research at the National Institute for Early Education Research. Nores added that the effects are even stronger for low-income, minority and dual language children. But Nores said learning can happen in a number of settings, not just public schools, and still be successful. “If the experience is high-quality, then it doesn’t matter where the child learns,” she said. Some states, including Georgia, have an all-public approach, and the outcomes are good. Other states use a combination of public and private programs, and children are successful there, too, Nores said. Minnesota falls into the latter category, with lower-income children accessing pre-K with state-funded scholarships. Dayton’s budget preserves that funding, but critics say more money should be dedicated to those programs. University of Minnesota professor and early childhood learning expert Arthur Reynolds agrees that quality trumps location. But Reynolds also pointed out that many of the factors associated with quality – such as teaching skills and curriculum – are often found in the public school setting. “Many of these features are more common in schools, especially teacher pay and certification, but private centers can also be very strong in these areas, sometimes stronger such as in [lower] group size,” Reynolds said. “There tends to be more variation in quality in private programs comparatively.” Reynolds also emphasized access, particularly when it comes to pre-K costs in Minnesota. “There has been greater reliance on private programs, family -based programs but the need to build a larger more unified system is real and that is what the Governor is proposing,” Reynold said. The Verdicts Figuring out how to better educate Minnesota’s children is a politically thorny and complicated issue. And while there’s some uncertainty about how widespread support is for Dayton’s plan and whether ultimately expanding pre-kindergarten to all public schools is entirely necessary, politicians on both sides of the issue are making sound and reasonable arguments based on plenty of facts. That’s why PoliGraph is saying both sides are accurate.  	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/05/poligraph-arguing-for-and-against-public-pre-k/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Arguing for and against public pre-K	May 22, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
6	As a member of the Army National Guard for 24 years, 1st District U.S. Rep. Tim Walz, D-Minn., has long made veterans issues his issues. So, at first blush it’s perplexing that he voted against a Republican-backed Veterans Affairs funding bill that, among other things, increased funding for the department. The National Republican Congressional Committee took note, sending an email to reporters in Minnesota saying that Walz voted against the VA funding bill that included a “more than $68 billion – a 6 percent increase from last year – in funding for VA Health Care Programs, VA medical centers…disability payments and other vital services.” Walz did vote against the bill. But there’s a lot more to the story.  	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/05/poligraph-nrccs-walz-claim-leaves-out-details/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: NRCC’s Walz claim leaves out details	May 8, 2015, 2:19 PM	None
7	For some Minnesota poultry farmers this year’s massive avian flu outbreak is  the worst they’ve ever seen. Nearly 3.8 million birds have died from the virus or were killed to prevent it from spreading. It’s hit the state’s $800 million turkey farming industry the hardest. In the midst of the crisis, legislators have discussed emergency funding to help poultry farmers deal with the outbreak, and have made a point to promote consumption of Minnesota turkeys. But one DFL legislator took to the House floor to give a bizarre speech about why he’s worried about the risk of humans getting avian flu. Rep. Ron Erhardt, DFL-Edina said that after eating turkey over the weekend “he was all flu-ed out” and referred to eating turkeys as “possible poison,” saying that there has been transference of avian flu to humans in the past. Erhardt’s statements imply people can get avian flu from eating poultry, and that’s not true. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/05/poligraph-erhardts-bird-flu-claims-are-false/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Erhardt’s bird flu claim is false	May 6, 2015, 2:28 PM	None
8	A key piece of the budget proposal from Republicans in the Minnesota House is a bill to fund health and human services. It cuts more than $1 billion in spending, effectively allowing the GOP to cut taxes by $2 billion. The proposal has been controversial among Democrats, in part because $500 million of the savings come from ending MinnesotaCare, a health insurance program for the working poor. Democrats are also pointing to another cut in the bill that they contend amounts to a budget gimmick.  They say the plan’s projected $300 million in savings from eliminating waste and fraud from Medicaid and other public programs would actually yield much less – around $16.5 million –which they say would leave a $283 million hole in the GOP budget for the coming biennium. The DFL gets this right. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/05/poligraph-dfl-correct-about-hhs-budget-hole/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: DFL correct about HHS budget ‘hole’	May 1, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
9	During a state House debate on a jobs and energy bill this week, Democrats offered an amendment that would put the Legislature on record saying that climate change is real and that humans are causing it.  Late in the debate, House Minority Leader Paul Thissen, DFL-Minneapolis, quizzed a number of Republican representatives on their views on climate change. Among them was Rep. Glen Gruenhagen, R-Glencoe, who has said in the past that he’s skeptical climate change is real. Thissen asked him if he thinks climate change is caused by human activity. “I believe there are eminently qualified scientists who would disagree [that climate change is caused by human activity], and I agree with those scientists,” Gruenhagen said. Gruenhagen has a right to his opinion, but his comments – and comments made by other Legislators during the debate – suggest the scientific community is divided on the topic. That’s not true. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/04/poligraph-gruenhagen-climate-claim-doesnt-hold-up/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Gruenhagen climate claim doesn’t hold up	April 24, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
10	In his fifth State of the State address on Thursday, Gov. Mark Dayton repeated a lot of claims about the state’s economy and future. PoliGraph put three of those claims to the test and found two of the three to be correct. Here’s Dayton’s first claim about Minnesota’s economy. “More Minnesota businesses are expanding.  So, more Minnesotans are working.  They are earning more money, which means they are paying more taxes.” Dayton’s talking about the state’s most recent budget forecast. The report showed that more Minnesotans are working and earning higher wages, when not adjusted for inflation. That means more income and sales tax revenue for the state, which is a big driver behind Minnesota’s $1.9 billion budget surplus. PoliGraph rated a similar claim from Dayton accurate in the past, and we’re sticking with that rating. Dayton went on to talk about how Minnesota’s employment rate stacks up against the rest of the nation. “Our unemployment rate is an unusually low, 3.7%…. Minnesota is the only state in the nation, whose employment rate for 25-54 year-olds in 2014 exceeded its pre-recession level in 2007.” Dayton is correct that the state’s unemployment rate is 3.7 percent – lower than the national average of 5.5 percent. He’s also referring to a study from the Pew Charitable Trusts that compared 2014 employment rates in every state with employment rates prior to the recession. The study focused on 25-54 year-olds because those are considered prime working years, according to Pew’s website. Dayton is mostly correct that Minnesota is the only state in the nation that has an employment rate that’s higher than before the economy tanked. But the rate change is only slightly better than before the recession, and the Pew study doesn’t consider it statistically significant. Lastly, Dayton touched on the state’s education funding. “A rank of 24th in per-pupil K-12 education expenditures by a state with the 11th highest per-capita income means that at least thirteen other states are making greater financial efforts than we are to educate our children.” Back in January, Dayton made a similar claim about Minnesota’s per-pupil spending, but Poligraph gave it an inconclusive because the most recent numbers available are a few years old. That means the latest rankings don’t include Dayton’s more recent investments in education, like funding for all-day kindergarten. This claim comes with another important note: Minnesota actually ranks 15th in per capita income according to the latest Census data. A few years ago, Minnesota ranked 11th in the nation. Because data about education spending per pupil still haven’t been updated, PoliGraph will rate this version of Dayton’s claim inconclusive as well.   	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/04/poligraph-fact-checking-the-state-of-the-state/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Fact-checking the State of the State	April 10, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
11	As of last week, there’s a lot more certainty in how much Democrats in the state Senate and Republicans in the state House want to spend on specific programs. They released their “budget targets,” but there’s a vast difference between the two proposals. Republicans say their overall general fund target is roughly $39.9 billion over two years – a roughly 1.7 percent increase over the current budget. House Minority Leader Paul Thissen says Republicans are using funny math. “If you look at the real numbers, you’ll see the Republican budget math doesn’t add up,” Thissen, DFL-Minneapolis, said in a press conference responding to the GOP budget outline. Depending on how you look at the numbers, the GOP budget proposal could be closer to $42.5 billion. 	inconclusive	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/04/poligraph-claims-about-the-gop-budget/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Claims about the GOP budget	April 3, 2015, 11:57 AM	None
12	Politicians love to exaggerate. One of their favorite claims is that something is the largest [fill in the blank] in Minnesota’s history – the largest spending increase, the largest tax cut, the biggest investment. House Speaker Kurt Daudt of Crown made one such claim in response to Gov. Mark Dayton’s proposed supplemental budget, which invests big in education. He said that with a nearly $1.9 billion budget surplus, Dayton should back off his plan to raise the state’s gas tax to pay for road and bridge construction. “Frankly, it would be the largest gas tax increase – I think – in state history,” Daudt said. History mostly supports Daudt’s claim. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/03/poligraph-largest-gas-tax-in-state-history/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Largest gas tax in state history?	March 18, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
13	Here’s what the Minnesota Republican Party wants to do with the state’s nearly $1.9 billion surplus: Give it all back to Minnesotans. The party hasn’t detailed how it proposes to do that. But during a press conference to launch the party’s “Give it all back” ad campaign, party chair Keith Downey said that Democrats have overtaxed Minnesotans. “Democrats raised taxes $2 billion, it creates a surplus of nearly $2 billion in this budget, and a $3 billion surplus in the following biennium,” he said. It’s true that the projected surplus in the next biennium is just about equal to the amount that taxes went up when Democrats controlled the Legislature, but Downey is oversimplifying the state’s budget situation. 	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/03/poligraph-gop-ties-surplus-to-tax-cuts/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: GOP ties surplus to tax cuts	March 12, 2015, 5:00 AM	None
14	If you didn’t think Gov. Mark Dayton’s decision to raise pay for his commissioners would be a 2016 campaign issue, think again. At least one political group is already minting and sending fliers to Senate districts where Democrats will be up for re-election next year. One is landing in the mailboxes of Sen. Melisa Franzen’s constituents. Franzen is a Democrat from Edina. “Minnesota wages are flat, but political appointees are getting pay raises thanks to legislation supported by Senator Melisa Franzen,” the flier from the GOP-backed Minnesota Action Network flier reads. “This wasn’t the only time she voted to give politicians a pay raise.” According to the flier, Franzen voted to increase her own by 35 percent and for a constitutional amendment to make it easier to raise legislative pay. The Minnesota Action Network flier doesn’t tell the whole story about Franzen’s voting record. 	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/02/poligraph-mn-action-network-flier-omits-key-details/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: MN Action Network flier omits key details	February 27, 2015, 3:15 PM	None
15	At one point, Republicans on the committee steered the conversation toward their concern over the size of the Governor’s roughly $42 billion two-year budget.  Rep. Linda Runbeck, R-Circle Pines, said she recognized Minnesota is different from Illinois, but she implied that Minnesota could take its budgeting cues from Illinois. “The state of Illinois is making some big cuts in their state budget,” she said. “It shocked me to find out that they have a population of 12.8 million and their current budget is at $38 billion.” Runbeck’s statement doesn’t make much sense in context. 	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/02/poligraph-runbeck-budget-claim-out-of-context/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Runbeck budget claim out of context	February 27, 2015, 2:52 PM	None
16	 If you happen to live in Greater Minnesota, consider yourself lucky: legislators on both sides of the aisle are making rural issues a priority in this year’s legislative session. That includes a $227 million plan backed by Senate DFLers that focuses on rural broadband, housing, workforce training and career counseling. PoliGraph looked at two claims made by Minnesota Democrats backing the proposal, and found that they missed the mark. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/02/poligraph-broadband-jobs-claims-miss-the-mark/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Broadband, jobs claims miss the mark	February 20, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
17	The hottest news at the Capitol this week hasn’t been about transportation funding, education or any of the other big and complicated policies legislators are grappling with this session. It was Gov. Mark Dayton’s decision to boost pay for members of his cabinet, a move he says is long overdue.  Republicans have seized on the issue, saying Dayton made a rash decision when some Minnesotans are still struggling financially (and it’s a message that will almost certainly show up in GOP campaign literature come 2016). Even Democrats in the Minnesota Senate, who are up for re-election in 2016 – and who may be trying to avoid that aforementioned campaign literature – voted 63-2 this week to suspend Dayton’s pay increases. The effort was led by DFL Senate Majority Leader Tom Bakk of Cook. Now, Dayton says he no longer trusts Bakk because Bakk stabbed him in the back. PoliGraph looked at two claims on opposite sides of the debate, and found both of them are mostly accurate. What’s more important to the debate over salaries is context. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/02/poligraph-commissioner-pay-explained/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Pay raises, facts and flack	February 13, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
18	In their quest to make Minnesota a more attractive place to retire, a group of Republican state senators drafted a bill that would eliminate taxes on Social Security. To make their case, bill sponsor Sen. David Senjem, R-Rochester, said most states don’t tax the elderly or their benefits. “Thirty-eight states don’t tax us at all. Twenty-nine states of those states have by purpose eliminated the Social Security tax… Seven states, including Minnesota, do tax Social Security.” As it turns out, Minnesota is an outlier.  	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/01/poligraph-senjems-social-security-claims-correct/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Senjem’s Social Security claims correct	January 23, 2015, 2:00 PM	None
19	Earlier this week, Gov. Mark Dayton unveiled a cornerstone of his second-term agenda: more assistance for people sending their kids to day care. Dayton wants to expand an existing child care tax credit to cover 130,000 Minnesota families. To make his case, Dayton’s administration said in a press release that Minnesota’s child care costs are unusually expensive. “Right now in Minnesota, child care costs $901 per month, on average – totaling $10,812 per year just to provide quality care for one child. These high costs make Minnesota the 3rd-most expensive state in the nation for child care, based on the cost of infant care as a share of median income (15.5%).” There are a lot of rankings and a lot of ways to measure the cost of care, but any way you look at it, Minnesota is among the most expensive places in the country to send children to day care. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2015/01/poligraph-minnesotas-child-care-costs/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Minnesota’s child care costs	January 21, 2015, 2:07 PM	None
20	In its latest ad, the National Republican Congressional Committee is seeking to make 8th Congressional District Rep. Rick Nolan look soft on terrorism. A new spot running this week weaves images Nolan with videos of terrorists, tanks and explosions. “We all know the growing threat we face today,” the ad says. “What we don’t know is why Congressman Rick Nolan voted to release terrorists held at Guantanamo Bay and then voted against funding for our troops fighting the war on terror.” This ad misrepresents Nolan’s votes.  	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/09/poligraph-nrcc-distorts-nolans-terrorism-record/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: NRCC distorts Nolan’s terrorism record	September 24, 2014, 3:10 PM	None
21	The battle for control of the U.S. House is playing out in Minnesota’s 7th Congressional District, where groups backing Republicans and Democrats have dueling ads up this week. After the National Republican Congressional Committee dropped six figures on an ad targeting incumbent DFL Rep. Collin Peterson earlier this month, its foe the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee fired back with an ad blasting Peterson’s Republican opponent, state Sen. Torrey Westrom of Elbow Lake. “Westrom led the charge to shutdown Minnesota’s government. Why? Because he wouldn’t let go of tax breaks for millionaires. Westrom’s shutdown cost Minnesota almost $60 million. Almost 20,000 Minnesotans were out of the work. And the whole time, Torrey Westrom kept his taxpayer funded paycheck.” This ad leans toward misleading for leaving out some important facts.  	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/09/poligraph-dccc-ad-exaggerates-shutdown-facts/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: DCCC ad exaggerates shutdown facts	September 19, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
22	In the vast 7th Congressional District, it can take hours to get from one place to the next. That’s why DFL Rep. Collin Peterson has long defended his use of an airplane to get around. But Peterson’s preferred modes of transportation are a sore spot with the National Republican Congressional Committee, which is targeting Peterson’s taxpayer reimbursed cars and mileage in its latest six-figure ad buy. “It was bad enough when Peterson charged taxpayers for one leased car. Now he has two. Minnesota Senators don’t even have two. Worse? We also reimburse Peterson for gas and mileage – more than double any other Minnesota congressman.” The ad is essentially correct, but Peterson argues he has unusual circumstances. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/09/poligraph-petersons-planes-trains-and-automobiles/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Peterson’s planes, trains and automobiles	September 17, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
23	Another week, and another ad on the airwaves in the 8th Congressional District. There, Republican Stewart Mills is running against incumbent DFL Rep. Rick Nolan in one of the hottest races in the country. Mills is getting a lot of help from National Republican Congressional Committee, which targets Nolan for being “dangerously liberal” in its newest ad. “Nolan voted to cut funding for the fight against Al Qaeda. Veterans aren’t receiving health care, yet Nolan voted against funding the veteran’s health administration. And hardworking Minnesotans are just trying to make ends meet. Nolan voted against work requirements for welfare recipients.” The spot gets two out of three of these claims right. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/09/poligraph-two-hits-and-a-miss-on-nrccs-latest-ad/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Two hits and a miss on NRCC’s latest ad	September 12, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
24	Bermuda’s warm beaches have become part of a chilly political battle between Sen. Al Franken and his Republican opponent Mike McFadden. Franken’s latest ad says McFadden’s company is incorporated in Bermuda to avoid U.S. taxes, a tactic that’s meant to emphasize McFadden’s wealth and connections to corporate America. “Meet investment banker, Mike McFadden. He’s running for Senate in Minnesota. But McFadden’s business is based right here in Bermuda. That’s right: McFadden’s company uses a special tax loophole to list its headquarters offshore and to avoid paying millions of taxes in America.” The truth of this statement hinges on how you define “McFadden’s business.” 	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/09/poligraph-key-facts-missing-in-frankens-latest-ad/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Key facts missing in Franken’s latest ad	September 10, 2014, 2:01 PM	None
25	For months after a rocky roll out of the federal and state health insurance exchanges, Democrats distanced themselves from the Affordable Care Act. Now, they’re using it to throw barbs at their Republican opponents. In Minnesota, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is criticizing 8th Congressional District Republican candidate Stewart Mills for saying he would scrap the law, including parts that both sides support.  “Millionaire Stewart Mills III has taken thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from the health insurance industry, and now he wants to put the insurance companies back in charge to deny care to people with-pre-existing conditions and kick kids off their parents’ plans,” a DCCC press release states. The DCCC’s claim is half wrong, half right. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/08/poligraph-dccc-mills-claim-half-wrong-half-right/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: DCCC Mills claim half wrong, half right	August 29, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
26	Mark Twain once said that “there are three kinds of lies: Lies, damned lies and statistics.” That quote applies to a recent statement made by Republican gubernatorial candidate Jeff Johnson, who says two polls show he is within striking distance of Gov. Mark Dayton. “Mark Dayton is in trouble,” reads the headline of a recent Johnson press release. “These polls confirm that Mark Dayton is in trouble, and that I am in a great position with the general election campaign just underway.” A separate post on Johnson’s Facebook page said “Mark Dayton is under 50%! We are only single digits away from victory!” Dayton is in better shape than Johnson lets on. 	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/08/poligraph-johnsons-polling-claim-misleads/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Johnson’s polling claim misleads	August 27, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
27	 Sen. Amy Klobuchar stopped by the MPR News State Fair booth this week to talk about beer, guns and the economy. But her answer to a question about student loan debt stood out to PoliGraph. “When you look at the average debt for students in Minnesota… it’s something like $30,000,” Klobuchar said. College graduates aren’t trained for the jobs that are available, she added. “One of the things that I’ve found frustrating is that we have something like 80 percent of our manufacturers in Minnesota have job openings,” she said. Klobuchar is nearly correct on both accounts. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/08/poligraph-klobuchar-right-student-debt-jobs-stats/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Klobuchar right on student debt, jobs	August 22, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
28	In his latest ad, Republican Senate hopeful Mike McFadden is employing a classic campaign tactic against Sen. Al Franken by linking him to an unpopular president. The ad features a Franken look-alike unsuccessfully backing a boat into a Minnesota lake. “Al Franken keeps missing the mark,” the ad states. “Franken has a 97 percent voting record with President Obama, over 40 votes for higher taxes. And Franken cast the deciding vote for Obamacare.” Like many stories told near boat landings, McFadden’s ad stretches the truth. 	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/08/poligraph-mcfadden-ad-exaggerates/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: McFadden ad exaggerates	August 20, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
29	The legislative session is over, and DFLers are back in their districts talking up their accomplishments, including efforts to reduce the funding gap between urban and rural school districts. Rep. Joe Radinovich, DFL-Crosby, wrote that, “We’ve reduced the funding equity gap between metro and rural school districts by a third in two years after watching it double over the last decade.” Rep. Paul Marquart, DFL-Dilworth, wrote that, “After a decade where the funding equity gap between metro and rural schools increased by 67 percent, we enacted legislation that cut this unfair funding disparity by a third in just two years.” As with all things that involve public school financing, it’s complicated.  	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/06/poligraph-parsing-school-funding-claims/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Parsing school funding claims	June 20, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
30	Marty Seifert has issued a challenge to Gov. Mark Dayton: refuse campaign contributions from lobbyists. Seifert says he’s never taken lobbyist contributions and wants Dayton, whom Seifert hopes to unseat this fall, to do the same. “Not accepting lobbyist contributions so far this election, and in all my previous elections, has made my campaign unique,” said Seifert in a press release. Seifert’s campaign finance reports don’t include lobbyist contributions. But that doesn’t mean he hasn’t taken them.  	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/06/poligraph-seifert-misleads-on-campaign-dollars/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Seifert misleads on campaign dollars	June 13, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
32	A political group called Compete! Minnesota released its first ad this week in support of potential Republican gubernatorial candidate Scott Honour. The ad has a lot of nice things to say about Honour’s personality and business background. Compete! Minnesota has personal ties to Honour. But the part that stuck out to PoliGraph was this statement about Honour’s stance on the state’s health insurance exchange, MNsure, as it compares to what the other GOP gubernatorial hopefuls are saying. “Only Honour wants to scrap the whole program,” the ad states, quoting a blog post from Politics.mn, a website run by former Senate aide Michael Brodkorb. Honour is hardly alone among Republican candidates for governor in wanting to get rid of MNsure. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/05/poligraph-several-gop-gov-hopefuls-want-to-end-mnsure/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Several GOP Gov. hopefuls want to end MNsure	May 16, 2014, 2:05 PM	None
34	Late last year, emergency unemployment insurance expired and U.S. House Democrats have been on a crusade to renew it even though their Republican colleagues aren’t interested. Democrats have been putting on the pressure this week, using social media to make their case. Here’s a tweet from Rep. Keith Ellison: “How does the end of emergency unemployment insurance affect the economy? 240,000 jobs. #RenewUI” That number comes from a partisan source. But there is a link between job growth and unemployment benefits. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/05/poligraph-ellison-unemployment-claim-accurate/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Ellison unemployment claim accurate	May 9, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
35	It starts to feel a little like the Twilight Zone when PoliGraph fact-checks a fact-check. But when Mike McFadden, who is seeking the GOP party’s endorsement to challenge Sen. Al Franken in the general election, sent out a fact-check challenging Franken’s first ad of the campaign season, we couldn’t resist. Franken’s ad features a local business owner and touts Franken’s efforts to train workers for more technologically demanding jobs. Here’s what McFadden’s press release said: “The ad highlights Franken’s ‘Community College to Career Fund Act,’ a bill that hasn’t received a single hearing in the Democrat led Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.” It goes on to say: “The ‘Workforce Investment Act of 2013,’ which includes similar language to Franken’s bill, has yet to receive a vote on the Senate floor.” There’s truth to McFadden’s claims, but they also deserve context. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/05/poligraph-mcfaddens-claims-about-franken-ad-accurate/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: McFadden’s claims about Franken ad accurate	May 7, 2014, 3:00 PM	None
36	Gov. Mark Dayton gave a late-season State of the State address this week. In it, he highlighted some of the bright spots in Minnesota’s economic, education and health outlook as evidence that changes made during his tenure are making the state better. PoliGraph looked at three of those statements this week. “There are more than 2.8 million jobs in Minnesota today. More jobs than ever before in our state’s history. 150,000 more jobs than when I became governor.” Using seasonally adjusted Department of Employment and Economic Development data going back to 1990, Dayton’s claim checks out: There are roughly 2.81 jobs in Minnesota today, and that’s more than the state has seen in recent history. It’s also true that there are about 151,000 more jobs today than when Dayton took office in January 2011. Of course, it’s important to put these numbers in context. The nation as a whole has been recovering from the recession for several years now. According to DEED, Minnesota went into the recession earlier than the nation and came out of it a bit earlier, too. Since then, the state’s growth has essentially tracked the nation’s growth. “Our graduation rate, nearly 80 percent, is the highest in a decade.” According to data from the Department of Education, 79.5 percent of seniors graduated in 2013 up from about 77 percent the year before “This increase is twice the yearly increase seen over the past three years, showing acceleration in progress for Minnesota seniors,” the education department said when it released the numbers. Minnesota’s graduation rate is among the highest in the nation. In fact, graduation rates everywhere are on the rise, particularly among Hispanic and African American kids. However, when it comes to graduating lower income kids, Minnesota’s rate is on the low side compared to other states – about 58 percent, according to a report from the U.S. Department of Education. “We have the fifth lowest percentage of citizens without health insurance coverage.” This statement is also correct. Only 8.7 percent of Minnesotans lack health insurance, following Massachusetts, Vermont, Washington, D.C., and Connecticut which boast even lower rates. ADDITIONAL SOURCES Oriane Casale, Department of Employment and Economic Development. Josh Collins, Department of Education Linden Zakula, spokesperson, Gov. Mark Dayton 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/05/poligraph-dayton-claims-about-economy-education-accurate/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Dayton claims about economy, education accurate	May 2, 2014, 2:20 PM	None
37	Rep. Kelby Woodard, R-Belle Plaine, is concerned that the Affordable Care Act will cost schools. In a press release, he argued that “the total unfunded costs associated with Affordable Care Act (ACA) compliance will cost Minnesota schools at least $207.96 million.” The number comes from a reputable source, but it also comes with some important caveats. 	inconclusive	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/04/poligraph-aca-may-cost-schools-200m-or-it-may-not/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: ACA may cost schools $200M – or it may not	April 30, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
38	This week, the Minnesota Senate passed legislation that’s meant to address pay disparities and protect women in the workplace. Among other things, the legislation would require companies with government contracts to certify that they pay men and women equally, and require employers to be more flexible with pregnant and nursing mothers. State Sen. Sandy Pappas, DFL-St. Paul, sponsored the bill. She argued on the Senate floor that protecting female employees is critical for the economy because their salaries are more and more likely to their household’s primary source of income. “Fifty percent of the state’s working mothers are the primary breadwinner for their family, as the sole earner or earning more than their spouse,” Pappas said. She went on to add that, “the pay gap is stuck at about 20 percent, that is women earning 80 percent of what men do on average.” Both those statistics are correct. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/04/poligraph-pappas-stats-about-women-workers-correct/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Pappas stats about women workers correct	April 25, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
39	Gov. Mark Dayton is touting a package of tax cuts he signed into law recently as evidence that his administration is out to help middle class Minnesotans. Democrats say the cuts were possible because the state has a surplus. Republicans say Democrats are trying to make themselves look good during an election year. “This session, the Governor signed into law $508 million in tax relief for middle class families and Minnesota businesses,” says a primer on Dayton’s tax cuts. “These new tax cuts benefit middle class Minnesotans, including seniors, farmers, teachers, working families, and small businesses.” It’s true that Dayton signed a bill that lowered taxes by about $508 million, but he also raised taxes by $2.1 Billion in the previous session. And to say these cuts are all “new” is a stretch.  	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/04/poligraph-daytons-tax-cut-claims-leave-out-context/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Dayton’s tax cut claims leave out context	April 18, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
40	Republicans have zeroed in on a new election-year talking point about MNsure. They say that House Democrats authorized a multi-million dollar bailout for the program. Take GOP gubernatorial hopeful Scott Honour who made the following statement in a recent press release: “Fixing [MNsure’s] problems will be expensive, and Minnesotans are unjustly being asked to pay the bill for Governor Dayton’s failed Obamacare exchange. Just days ago, the House passed a $442 million bailout of Obamacare-MNSure in the omnibus supplemental spending bill.” A bailout for MNsure? That’s hardly the case. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/04/poligraph-a-bailout-for-mnsure-not-so/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: A bailout for MNsure? Not so.	April 16, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
41	With the Republican endorsing convention more than a month away, the state’s DFL party still has a wide field of GOP candidates to target. Among them is state Sen. Julianne Ortman, R-Chanhassen, who is seeking her party’s endorsement to run against Democratic Sen. Al Franken. The DFL is using Ortman’s record as a legislator to paint her as out of step with Minnesota. Here’s what DFL chair Ken Martin said in a recent press release about Ortman after she was endorsed by former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin. “[Ortman] is wrong on women’s reproductive health, voting for a bill that defunded all family planning programs in the state. She’s wrong on immigration reform, saying she would have opposed the overwhelmingly bipartisan Senate immigration bill. And she’s wrong on health care, promising to repeal the Affordable Care Act and take us back to the days when people with pre-existing conditions couldn’t get covered and insurance companies were allowed to charge women more than men for coverage.” There’s truth in Martin’s statement, but it needs context. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/04/poligraph-dfl-claims-about-ortmans-record-mostly-true/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: DFL claims about Ortman’s record mostly true	April 4, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
42	Last week, the five Republican candidates competing to unseat Gov. Mark Dayton gathered for a joint press conference to criticize a proposed office building for the state’s senators. The group was unified in its belief that the project spells wasteful government spending. To underscore his opposition to the building, candidate Scott Honour pointed out that government is spending more on its citizens than ever before. “Our government spends two-and-half-times as much per citizen today as it did 30 years ago.”​ Honour’s claim is correct, but only by one measure. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/04/poligraph-honour-claim-about-govt-spending-correct/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Honour claim about gov’t spending correct	April 2, 2014, 2:30 PM	None
43	The proposed new Senate Office Building is getting a lot of attention at the Capitol right now, and will be getting a lot of attention this coming election season, too. Republicans are using the estimated $90 million project as a way to paint the DFL majority as wasteful. Meanwhile, Gov. Mark Dayton and the House DFL have concerns about the cost and size of the project, too.  In defense of the new building, Senate Majority Leader Tom Bakk, DFL-Cook, said his chamber is actually giving up a lot of space during the simultaneous Capitol building renovation. “The Governor is almost doubling his footprint in the Capitol under the new, tentative space allocation… The Services for the Blind are adding significant space. The Historical Society is almost doubling the amount of space they’re going to have in the Capitol. The Senate is giving up about 38,000 square feet of the space we occupy in this building.” Bakk’s numbers are correct. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/03/poligraph-bakk-office-building-claim-correct/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Bakk office building claim correct	March 28, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
44	Get ready to hear a lot about a proposed Senate office building this election season. Republicans are using the project as a way to highlight wasteful spending among their DFL counterparts. Senate Democrats say the space is badly needed to accommodate members of the chamber. Because it’s shaping up to be a major campaign issue, this week’s installment of PoliGraph will look at two claims made about the new construction. First up, this statement from Republican state Rep. Kurt Zellers, who is seeking his party’s endorsement to challenge Gov. Mark Dayton this fall. “The $90 million dollar Senate Legislative Office Building and parking ramp the Democrats snuck through the legislature last year is a disaster zone of reckless spending, and Governor Dayton and the DFL-controlled legislature think it’s a good idea,” Zellers wrote in a fundraising letter. “We’re already one of the highest taxed states in the U.S., and yet Governor Dayton just keeps adding to the tab by allowing our tax dollars to be used to build a $90 million complex that won’t even hold all the senators it’s being built for.” Parts of Zellers claim are right, other parts are overstatement. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/03/poligraph-checking-senate-office-building-claims/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Checking Senate Office Building claims	March 26, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
45	   In a speech to union workers this week, House Speaker Paul Thissen said the Legislature is focusing on putting more money in the pockets of Minnesotans. Chief among those priorities are raising the minimum wage and making sure women get better pay. “The argument that the Republicans make that this is going to undermine jobs, that it’s going to tank our economy, simply don’t hold up to the facts,” Thissen said. “We did it in the 90s, and our economy got better, we did it in the mid-2000s and our economy got better.” Thissen went on to point out that woman are particularly affected by changes in the minimum wage. “Sixty percent of the folks on minimum wage or less are women in this state. They make up 50 percent of the workforce, but they are disproportionately working at low-paying jobs.” Thissen’s claims need some context, but overall he is accurate. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/03/poligraph-thissens-minimum-wage-claims-mostly-true/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Thissen’s minimum wage claims mostly true	March 21, 2014, 2:30 PM	None
46	After intense speculation that he would end his political career, 7th Congressional District Rep. Collin Peterson announced earlier this week that he would seek a 13th term. The National Republican Congressional Committee, which raises and spends money to maintain a Republican majority in the U.S. House of Representatives, has been salivating over Peterson’s seat for some time now because the 7th District leans Republican. With Peterson’s announcement, the NRCC is now trying to make the case that Peterson has overstayed his welcome in Congress by pointing out that he’s flip-flopped on congressional term limits. Here’s what the group said in a recent press release: Peterson has voiced his support for 12-year term limits in the past and even voted for a term limits constitutional amendment … In 2010, Peterson also signed the U.S. Term Limits Amendment Pledge – 20 years after he first ran for Congress. The NRCC gets half of this claim wrong. 	misleading	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/03/poligraph-nrcc-misinterprets-petersons-term-limit-record/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: NRCC misinterprets Peterson’s term limit record	March 19, 2014, 3:19 PM	None
47	DFL legislators are at odds over an effort to raise the minimum wage. But the one thing Democrats in both the House and Senate do agree on is that minimum wage hasn’t kept pace with the cost of living. Sen. John Hoffman, DFL-Champlin, underscored that point in a recent press release. “Currently, about 20 percent of Minnesota jobs pay less than $10.03 an hour, which is what the federal minimum wage would be today if it had been increased for inflation since the late 1960s.” Hoffman’s claim is correct. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/03/poligraph-minimum-wage-claim-correct/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Minimum wage claim correct	March 14, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
48	If a recent special election in Florida tells us anything, the health care policy will be front and center in the 2014 elections. Republicans won a Florida congressional seat in part by hammering the Democratic candidate on the Affordable Care Act. The same themes are already playing out in Minnesota. Take a recent ad paid for by the American Action Network, a conservative group spearheaded by former Minnesota Sen. Norm Coleman. The ad is running in the 8th Congressional District, which is represented by democrat Rick Nolan. It centers on cuts to Medicare Advantage plans, which are offered by private companies approved by Medicare. Messages about the program are meant to resonate with elderly voters, who tend to show up on Election Day. “For the second year in a row, the Obama administration has proposed deep rate cuts to the Medicare Advantage seniors rely on. Call Rep. Nolan and tell him to fight the President’s April 7th Medicare Advantage cuts,” the ad states. Meanwhile, flashing across the screen is this statement: “Rick Nolan voted against repealing Obamacare.” There’s a lot of pick apart in this ad, but overall, it’s correct. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/03/poligraph-aan-nolan-ad-mostly-accurate/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: AAN Nolan ad mostly accurate	March 13, 2014, 12:05 PM	None
50	Sen. Al Franken is running for re-election this year, making him a top target for the state’s Republicans. Many of them, including Franken’s potential opponents, are focusing on the Democrat’s apparent involvement in asking the Internal Revenue Service to give extra scrutiny to conservative political groups that masquerade as non-profits. Here’s a sampling of some recent barbs: “As a driving force behind the IRS Scandal, he denied First Amendment rights to Conservatives. It’s unacceptable that he directed a powerful government agency to intimidate and harass people based on their personal beliefs.” – GOP Senate hopeful Mike McFadden in a fundraising letter. “Will you ask @alfranken why he signed a letter urging the IRS to go after conservative groups? – Republican Party of Minnesota Secretary Chris Fields in a tweet. Franken stayed “shamefully silent in the face of IRS targeting.” – GOP Senate hopeful Julianne Ortman in a fundraising email sent Feb. 25, 2014. PoliGraph looked at all these claims and found them to be overblown at best. 	FALSE	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/03/poligraph-republican-claims-on-franken-and-the-irs-go-too-far/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Republican claims on Franken and the IRS go too far	March 5, 2014, 2:00 PM	None
51	While President Barack Obama was in town this week for a speech, Minnesota 2nd Congressional District Republican Rep. John Kline used the opportunity to ask him some pointed questions — over Twitter.  Kline’s claim is spot on. 	accurate	https://blogs.mprnews.org/capitol-view/2014/02/poligraph-kline-health-care-tweet-holds-up/	None	None	None	Catharine Richert	None	PoliGraph: Kline health care tweet holds up	February 28, 2014, 3:00 PM	None
