ClaimID	Claim	Label	ClaimUrl	Reason	Categories	Speaker	Checker	Tags	Article Title	PublishDate	ClaimDate
1_1	We are not under the thumb of international law. We can terminate a treaty that we entered into at any time […] Switzerland can cancel any contract at any time. If we wanted to, we could even terminate the European Human Rights Convention tomorrow. We just need to meet the notice period.	FALSE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/directdemocracy/true-or-false-_-foreign-judges--initiative--fact-checking-the-parliamentary-debates/44182064	Senator Bischof’s argument that any international treaty could be terminated at any time was so convincing that several other parliamentarians have since repeated his statement. False verdict (swissinfo.ch) There’s a catch, however. In such absolute terms, Bischof’s claim is not accurate. Some international treaties simply cannot be terminated. Although quite rare, they do existexternal link. Above all, there are the UN pacts on economic, social and cultural rights, or more precisely on civil and political rightsexternal link. The catalogue of human rights included in these pacts is similar to the one enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). The border treaties between Switzerland and neighbouring countries also cannot be terminated, and neither can mandatory international law. The ECHR, on the other hand, can be terminated. Bischof was right in this respect. Switzerland would only have to respect a notice period of six months imposed by the ECHR. Most other treaties signed with other countries also contain cancellation clauses.	DIRECT DEMOCRACY, POLITICS	Pirmin Bischof, Christian Democrats	Sibilla Bondolfi	None	‘Foreign judges’ initiative: fact checking the parliamentary debates	11 June 2018	None
1_2	No other country in the world assumes that international law takes precedence over their country’s constitution.	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/directdemocracy/true-or-false-_-foreign-judges--initiative--fact-checking-the-parliamentary-debates/44182064	Context: The People’s Party uses the comparison between Switzerland and other countries to support its argument that the initiative would simply implement what was already in place elsewhere. But opponents argue that such comparisons are short-sighted and misleading. True or false? True (swissinfo.ch) The Federal Office for Justice commissioned a report to establish how other states manage the relationship between international and national law. None of the countries studied was found to subscribe to the idea of "mechanically" giving international law precedence. In this respect, Vogt is right. But there is one exception. EU law takes precedence over national law in member states. Kurt Fluri of the Radical-Liberals argues: “All EU member states have to comply with EU law, even if they were to rule differently under their national laws.” This is trueexternal link. However, EU law is a special case, as the EU is a union of states, or a hybrid between a state and a confederation of states. The more such a union resembles a state, the less sovereignty the individual countries have. This is very similar to Switzerland’s federal system, whereby federal law takes priority over cantonal law.	DIRECT DEMOCRACY, POLITICS	Hans-Ueli Vogt, Swiss People’s Party	Sibilla Bondolfi	None	‘Foreign judges’ initiative: fact checking the parliamentary debates	11 June 2018	None
1_3	Thanks to the ECHR and the pressure it imposed, voting rights for women were introduced, asbestos victims were compensated, and administrative detention was abolished, for example.	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/directdemocracy/true-or-false-_-foreign-judges--initiative--fact-checking-the-parliamentary-debates/44182064	Context: Opponents have repeatedly drawn attention to the importance of the ECHR for Switzerland, believing that if the initiative were adopted, the country would have to abandon the human rights treaty. Voting Rights for Women Switzerland was one of the last countries in western Europe to ratify the ECHR, as some aspects of the Swiss Constitution were not in line with human rights. The fact that only men had the right to vote was one of them, since it violated the ban on discrimination. In 1968, the Federal Council envisaged signing the ECHR but required a special provision regarding voting rights for women. Women’s associations were up in arms. In an effort to appease them, the government launched an initiative for women's suffrage, which was accepted by national vote in 1971. The ECHR was finally signed in 1974. True (swissinfo.ch) Asbestos victims Compensation claims for bodily harm and death in Switzerland become null and void after ten years. Since the health effects triggered by asbestos are often only diagnosed years or even decades after exposure, the comparatively short period for requesting compensation is problematic. One victim suffering from asbestos-related injury took his case to the European Court of Human Rights, which ruledexternal link that in view of the severe damage to the victim’s health, the 10-year-limitation was disproportionate. After several tough debates, the Swiss parliament agreed to extend the limitation period to 20 years. Administrative detention Until the 1980s, Swiss authorities did not only lock away criminalsexternal link but also detained men and women whose lifestyles were considered immoral by the day's standards: single mothers, prostitutes, alcoholics, drug addicts and others. With no right of appeal, these groups were unable to fight their detention. Only after the ECHR was adopted were they granted access to procedural law. Nowadays, no person can be randomly detained.	DIRECT DEMOCRACY, POLITICS	Nadine Masshardt, Social Democratic Party	Sibilla Bondolfi	None	‘Foreign judges’ initiative: fact checking the parliamentary debates	11 June 2018	None
1_4	Developments over the past few years have shown that more and more initiatives are being launched that contradict international law. Then there are strong complaints about the influence of foreign law, providing a reason to launch a people’s initiative.	Unproven	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/directdemocracy/true-or-false-_-foreign-judges--initiative--fact-checking-the-parliamentary-debates/44182064	Context: Opponents of the initiative accuse the People’s Party of regularly launching proposals that violate international law. They argue that these initiatives are behind the collision between international and national law. Some opponents also accuse the party of consciously creating such collisions to gain political capitalexternal link. True or false? The Federal Council and some parliamentarians seem to assume that popular initiatives violating international law are a growing problem. In 2013 the government sent proposals for solutions for consultation, prompting one committee to assess whether the apparent difficulties in implementing initiativesexternal link meant reforms to the system were needed. Some – though not all – of the popular initiatives deemed problematic were launched or supported by the People’s Party. For example, the initiative on mass immigration possibly violates the freedom of movement agreement with the EU. The ban on building minarets may not be compatible with freedom of religion or the ban on discrimination. Automatic deportation for certain crimes as stipulated in the deportation initiative was also considered to be in violation of international law. This, however, is not a new phenomenon. In its discussion paperexternal link, the independent think tank foraus states that since the end of the 19th century, several people’s initiatives have been launched that violate basic rights or Switzerland’s international obligations. It gives examples such as the reintroduction of capital punishment in 1879, the ban on ritual slaughter in 1892, the detention of socialists in 1919 and initiatives against foreign overpopulation in the 1970s. But it also notes that some problematic initiativesexternal link have been accepted in recent years. The fact that Swiss law increasingly clashes with international obligations is due not just to People’s Party’s initiatives but to other factors as well. Oliver Diggelmann, professor for international law at Zurich University, thinks that the growing importance of international law in our globalised world increases the likelihood of conflict with domestic law. The People’s Party is certainly not the only party launching initiatives conflicting with international law. One example is the fair pay initiative launched in 2009 by the youth wing of the socialist party that aimed to limit a company's highest salary to no higher than 12 times the lowest salary it paid. The proposal was criticised for being contrary to rights to ownership and economic freedom. Diggelmann also believes that a "more demanding understanding of human rights" over time, for example by the European Court of Human Rights, has increased the likelihood of conflict between domestic and international law. One example is the right to private and family life, which is significant in rulings on expulsions and, in the eyes of the court, means that national regulations infringe on human rights. Unproven verdict (swissinfo.ch) But how clearly can a violation be established as long as there are no court rulings? Law is not an exact science. Many legal experts would have considered a burka ban to be a violation of religious freedom, yet the European court has declared it admissible. For this reason, we too cannot conclusively assess whether more initiatives are being launched that violate international law.	DIRECT DEMOCRACY, POLITICS	Duri Campell, Conservative Democratic Party	Sibilla Bondolfi	None	‘Foreign judges’ initiative: fact checking the parliamentary debates	11 June 2018	None
2_1	The experiences of other European countries such as Denmark and Britain show that countries that integrate what is offered online internationally by casinos – instead of excluding it – can effectively limit the black market (to less than 5% of the whole) and benefit from additional tax revenue for the state.	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/true-or-false-_gambling-fact-check---closed-switzerland--vs--open-denmark-/44150152	According to a 2016 reportexternal link by management consultants Deloitte, “the [Danish] model is considered successful with a large number of licence holders, and an estimated small amount of illegal gambling. […] Many licence holders contribute to a competitive gambling market with little incentive for gamblers to use illegal sites”. The Danish Gambling Authority could not confirm to swissinfo.ch whether the black market share was less than 5%. In its 2017 annual reportexternal link it says that “the number of suspected violations requiring further evaluation fell between 2016 and 2017, indicating the illegal market in Denmark is still very small”. Data from the gambling authority shows gross revenue from online casinos reached DKK1.8 billion ($283 million) in 2017external link, a marked increase from the DKK870 million they generated in 2012external link, the year the new gambling law came into effect. Online gambling revenue is taxed at 20% by Danish authorities. In Switzerland, the justice ministry says in its Q&A section on the new gambling lawexternal link that more than CHF250 million ($252 million) “flows into the coffers of foreign internet casinos based in offshore locations such as Malta or Gibraltar”, as reported by the University of Bern in a 2015 studyexternal link. The Swiss justice ministry is also quick to point out that it’s not as if anything goes in Denmark.	Society, Business	None	Thomas Stephens	None	Gambling fact-check: ‘closed Switzerland’ vs ‘open Denmark’	29 May 2018	None
2_2	In Denmark, not every foreign provider receives a licence either. So there are also network blockages in Denmark.	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/true-or-false-_gambling-fact-check---closed-switzerland--vs--open-denmark-/44150152	So said Justice Minister Simonetta Sommaruga on April 28, in response to a questionexternal link from a reader of freesheet 20Minuten, who had said surely there would be even more money for Swiss institutions and social security schemes (some of the beneficiaries of casino tax money), if foreign casinos weren’t shut out of the market – unlike in Denmark. Since 2012 Denmark issues licencesexternal link to online gambling providers regardless of where they are based, if they meet specific requirements. It also has measures in place to block unlicensed sites. In her answer, Sommaruga went on to explain provisions in the proposed law but didn’t answer the question. Had she done so, she would have had to admit that the reader was correct in pointing out the additional revenue foreign casinos would likely generate, as they have in Denmark (see above). The blocking of websites is a sore point with the “No” campaigners, who object to what they consider state censorship of the internet. What’s more, they say on the No campaign websiteexternal link, blockages are pointless:	Society, Business	Justice Minister Simonetta Sommaruga	Thomas Stephens	None	Gambling fact-check: ‘closed Switzerland’ vs ‘open Denmark’	29 May 2018	None
2_3	Network blockages can be bypassed with just a few clicks and are therefore practically useless for blocking foreign [gambling] in Switzerland.	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/true-or-false-_gambling-fact-check---closed-switzerland--vs--open-denmark-/44150152	Deloitte says one disadvantage of the Danish model is that the “internet-block and payment-block is easy to surpass [sic] for users”. The Swiss justice ministry itself admits thisexternal link but adds blockages won’t be ineffective as a result. It says that “although players can get around the block, most people will stick to it. [...] The stop sign will work like at a building site: it can be ignored, but everyone knows it can be dangerous to do so”. Opponents argue they are not calling for a legal vacuum. Anaïs Grandjean, co-president of the Young Green Liberals, acknowledged in a television debateexternal link on May 9 that Denmark has a site-blocking system, adding:	Society, Business	None	Thomas Stephens	None	Gambling fact-check: ‘closed Switzerland’ vs ‘open Denmark’	29 May 2018	None
2_4	But it almost never uses this because it doesn’t need to.	Misleading	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/true-or-false-_gambling-fact-check---closed-switzerland--vs--open-denmark-/44150152	The Danish Gambling Authority told swissinfo.ch that between 2012 and 2017, 25 websites were blocked, of which 13 remain blocked. “Almost never” is open to interpretation, but an additional 24 unauthorised sitesexternal link were blocked on February 6 this year, more than three months before the television debate. Jean-Luc Moner-Banet, CEO of the lottery in French-speaking Switzerland, responding to Grandjean during the television	Society, Business	None	Thomas Stephens	None	Gambling fact-check: ‘closed Switzerland’ vs ‘open Denmark’	29 May 2018	None
2_5	At the end of the day, the Swiss system [being proposed] is very similar to the system in Denmark.	Misleading	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/true-or-false-_gambling-fact-check---closed-switzerland--vs--open-denmark-/44150152	As Moner-Banet explained in the debate, foreign casinos will be able to apply for online gambling licences in the next round of bidding, provided they meet requirements set out in the proposed law. But this will not be possible until six years after the law comes into forceexternal link. Foreign providers would then need to obtain a licence through a subsidiary in Switzerland or by acquiring a share in a Swiss casino. No such requirements exist in Denmark, although providers from outside the EU and European Economic Areaexternal link must have a legal representative in Denmark.	Society, Business	Noen	Thomas Stephens	None	Gambling fact-check: ‘closed Switzerland’ vs ‘open Denmark’	29 May 2018	None
3_1	The privileges granted to the SBC make it a quasi-monopolistic company.	Mostly False	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	According to the German dictionary Duden, a monopoly is to be understood as a "dominant company" which "is the sole supplier or customer in a market and can therefore dictate prices". The Swiss Broadcasting Corporation (SBC) - swissinfo's parent company - maintains seven out of a total of 20 Swiss TV channels that receive fees from the public purse. It also has 17 radio stations, which is slightly less than half of all the radio stations (40) that receive public funding. On the other hand, market dominance can be seen in terms of its distribution. It is the only provider whose broadcasting area covers the entire country and can thus reach all inhabitants of Switzerland. This not only generates increased influence but also higher advertising revenues. Private TV and radio stations also operate in regional niches for smaller audiences for financial reasons, with corresponding effects on advertising revenues. Guido Keel, head of the Institute for Applied Media Studies in Winterthur, says: "There is indeed little space next to the SBC with a fee distribution of a good CHF1.2 billion to 60 million for private broadcasters. Tagesschau According to Guido Keel, news broadcasts make democracy possible. (Keystone) According to Keel, however, it is problematic to speak of a market in the media. "Journalism is a public good. Its benefits cannot be limited to those who pay for it. Media informs society so that it can participate in democratic and thus state-building processes. This enables the media to create democracy, and those who don't pay for media use will benefit from it." In some regions, especially Graubünden, the SBC even acts as a monopoly breaker. The further the concentration of private media is progressing, the greater the influence of individual media companies in local markets. In western Switzerland, the three largest media account for more than 90% of the market. Fifteen years ago, it was 79%. In German-speaking Switzerland, Tamedia, Ringier and NZZ together account for more than 80%. Fifteen years ago, it was only 56%	Society, Business	Céline Amaudruz	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_2	Not only the SBC can apply for these CHF1.35 billion, but anyone and everyone can compete for this money; innovative start-ups, new companies and internet firms. This creates new jobs in industries and companies that are not privileged by the state today.	Half true	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	End of quote It is true that households spend more money when their budget increases. This increase in demand can create jobs, naturally also in the sectors named by Lukas Reimann. But what is the macroeconomic situation? Are there more jobs in the Swiss labour market as a result of adopting the No Billag initiative? Let's make a calculation: in 2016, fees amounting to CHF1.358 billion were collected. This amount would also be available to households and companies in Switzerland. A part would be spent, a part saved. The Swiss households' savings rate is around 20%, which would free up approximately CHF1.09 billion. It is difficult to estimate how much of this would actually flow into additional jobs. The personnel cost ratio of companies provides an indication of this. It expresses the proportion of sales that a company spends on personnel costs. For the ten largest listed companies in Switzerland, this figure is 28%, and for SMEs and start-ups - depending on the sector - it can be over 50%. Let us assume that the value for the entire economy does not exceed 40%. RAV Applying for a job: how many people would find work, or be unemployed? (Keystone) This would create new jobs for a maximum of CHF436 million. A job in Switzerland costs an average of CHF113,000, which would mean a maximum of 3,860 posts. This is significantly less than the 4,946 full-time positions, which the SBC will lose if the No-Billag initiative is adopted. Anyone who agrees with the No-Billag initiative in the belief that it will create jobs is wrong.	Society, Business	Lukas Reimann	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_3	An à la carte programme is more expensive than the existing offer. Teleclub's basic offer, for example, costs just under CHF480 per year.	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	Litscher's statement is basically correct. If you compare the various TV broadcasters in Switzerland, you will find that the SBC's seven television stations offer a broad range of content from information to sports, culture and entertainment at a comparatively low price. In contrast to pay TV (e. g. Teleclub, Sky) or commercial free-TV (e. g. RTL, Sat. 1 or ProSieben), the SBC's offer is also multilingual, multimedia, freely accessible anywhere in the country and the programmes are only interrupted by short, strictly regulated adverts. sportübertragung How much are sports fans willing to pay to see their favourite teams in action? (Keystone) It should be noted, however, that the SBC would not be able to afford this without the fees. With annual fee income of around CHF1.2 billion (status 2016), the SBC has a sizeable budget at its disposal, enabling it to afford and secure important broadcasting rights for sports events, for example. Moreover, the SBC relies less on advertisers, sponsors and quotas than commercial providers, who have to compete in a highly competitive market and do not enjoy any income guarantees.	Society, Business	Edith Graf-Litscher	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_4	The SBC is totally dependent on the state. The cabinet elects several members of the Board of Directors, it exerts influence.	Mostly False	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	The assertion in the first sentence that the SBC is totally dependent on the state is not true. Article 93 of the Swiss Constitution on "Radio and Television" states in the third paragraph:" The independence of radio and television as well as the autonomy of programming are guaranteed". Article 3a of the Radio and Television Act (RTVA) also states in black and white: "Radio and television are independent of the state". Consequently, the SBC is not a "state media" either, but rather an association under private law with a public mission. Every ten years, the cabinet issues a new licence to the SBC, which regulates the terms of the mandate. In addition, the SBC is not bound by any other regulations with regard to reporting, corporate organisation, programme and budget planning. Sitzungszimmer des Bundesrats The cabinet in session. How much influence does the government exert on the SBC? (Keystone) It is true, however, that the cabinet exercises an indirect influence. On the one hand, this is due to the concession competence just mentioned, and on the other hand to the election of the Board of Directors. Two out of a total of nine members of the Board of Directors are elected directly by the cabinet. Apart from this, the SBC is exempt from influence by the federal authorities. In addition, debt collection is carried out separately by Swisscom's subsidiary Billag, and not by the state.	Society, Business	Lukas Reimann	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_5	Our companies were forced to pay radio and television licence fees, which were steep. It is completely mistaken and incomprehensible that these fees must also be paid on the basis of turnover - as you have heard from my colleague Jean-François Rime - and, of course, only in order to be able to collect even more money.	FALSE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	It is true that the new Radio and Television Act (RTVA), which was narrowly adopted by the people in the referendum vote in 2015, also requires companies to pay taxes. However, even before the new Media Act came into force, companies had to pay a fee for commercial and commercial reception depending on the number of televisons or radios installed. What is new, however, is that the fees are based on the amount of revenue generated. This sounds drastic at first, but 75% of all companies, especially SMEs, are not paying any tax because their annual turnover is less than CHF500,000. Nine per cent of companies pay a lower levy than today. This means that 84% of all companies are better off. The remaining 16% of companies with annual sales in excess of CHF1 million are subject to an increase. Billag At the centre of the debate: the Billag invoice that Swiss residents receive every year. (Keystone) The dig at Jean-François Rime is also unjustified. With the new RTVA, all households are subject to the levy, but in return, the individual radio and television levy is reduced by around 10% to CHF400. In addition, local radio and television stations will receive a larger piece of the pie in the future. Incidentally, companies in most Swiss cantons also pay church tax. The idea behind it: Of the overall social achievements of these institutions, companies have something in common with society as a whole.	Society, Business	Sylvia Flückiger-Bäni	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_6	The broadcasts for language minorities will also suffer primarily from the halving of fees. In other words, they are deleted from the programmes.	Mostly True	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	It is unclear whether the broadcasts for non-German-speaking Switzerland would be completely deleted if the fees were halved, as would be required in the event of a possible counter-proposal to the No-Billag bill. What is clear, however, is that according to the SBC's annual report, around 57% of the fees are currently paid to the SBC's French, Italian and Romansh stations. With a fee cut by half, the broadcasters in French, Italian and Romansh would receive a total of CHF347.1 million per year. However, they need a total of around CHF690 million to maintain their current offering in the three smaller national languages for radio, TV and online. By way of comparison: Only the production of daily news and current affairs programmes at the French-speaking RTS costs around CHF36 million a year - but this does not yet include current affairs, consumer, science, cultural or business programming. RTR The headquarters of TV and radio for the minority language Romansh, in Chur. (Keystone) Thus, halving the fees would also drastically reduce the amount of information and cultural programmes, especially for language minorities, but not abolish them. Centralisation in Zurich would weaken the regions.	Society, Business	Matthias Aebischer	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_7	Switzerland does not exist because of the SBC. It existed before and will continue to exist without any fees.	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	t is true that Switzerland does not exist because of the SBC. The year 1848 is regarded by the vast majority of historians as the founding of modern Switzerland as we know it today - the year of Switzerland's first federal constitution, which laid the foundation for the confederation of states to become a federal state. The SBC and its predecessor have been in existence since 1931, and the government's radio policy at that time was based on the service public model of the British Broadcasting Corporation. Since its foundation, the SBC has had to fulfill its public service mandate. Rütlischwur Once upon a time: The founding of Switzerland - hundreds of years before the invention of TV and radio. (Wikimedia Commons/PD) It can be assumed that Switzerland would continue to exist even without any public broadcasting licence fee. Thus, the statement of parliamentarian Rickli is correct.	Society, Business	Natalie Rickli	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_8	In any case, foreign broadcasters in particular would benefit from a further or comprehensive restriction of advertising for the SBC. Already today, around 45% of TV advertising revenues go abroad. Is that what you want?	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	The risk of advertising revenues flowing into foreign countries should the SBC be weakened, is repeatedly brought to the fore by opponents of the No Billag initiative and the cabinet. A look at the trends in the Swiss advertising market shows whether anyone domestically would benefit if money used to advertise on Swiss public television and radio were freed up. According to the Swiss Advertising Statistics Foundation, around CHF5.56 billion in advertising revenues were spent in on media in 2016. Two developments are significant: advertising revenues for print media continue to fall, at CHF1.3 billion, 12% below the level of 2015, whereas the digital market is showing strong growth, with CHF1.1 billion flowing into online advertising. By way of comparison, in 2015 it was CHF974 million. Google Google in Zurich: An important player in the debate, but standing quietly on the sidelines. (Keystone) If the overall market volume remains stable, as is to be expected, around two-thirds of this volume will be redistributed to digital players in a time horizon of 2020-2025. This is the conclusion of a 2015 study by the University of Geneva, which is based on a survey of around 200 advertising marketers in Switzerland. In future, the distribution battle for advertising will take place online. Based on the budget preferences of the companies surveyed, it is expected that the Swiss market will become more globalised and segmented. According to the above-mentioned data collection by the Advertising Statistics Foundation, the strongest growth of around 20% was recorded in the area of search engine advertising. Big tech giants such as Facebook and Google are cited as the main beneficiaries. The small Swiss advertising market is thus practically exhausted. What else is left of advertising money? In traditional advertising, television continues to be at the forefront and is showing a positive development: in 2016, television advertising generated sales of around CHF775 million. Here, too, the statement of Fiala can be confirmed: the market share of foreign advertising has increased to 42.4%, the SBC broadcasters have fallen to 46.6%, and the private sector has been able to expand its market share to 11%. The recent development of the Swiss advertising market shows that private Swiss media could therefore only benefit in part from the funds released. In its message on the No-Billag initiative, the cabinet estimates that in the Swiss radio and television market, less than half of the current revenues would be available if the obligation to pay fees were abolished.	Society, Business	Doris Fiala	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_9	The SBC would continue to exist with No Billag.	FALSE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	In principle, the statement is correct. "No Billag" is a constitutional initiative that would prohibit the government from regulating fees. The private organisation SBC could thus continue to exist as a shell without any content, as the following assessments suggest. Otfried Jarren, professor at the Institute for Journalism and Media Research at the University of Zurich, says: "The SBC could no longer finance its current programmes without a licence. Especially not the offers in French-speaking Switzerland or Ticino [Italian-speaking canton]. In German-speaking Switzerland, only a very limited range of programmes would be available, and only partially refinanced through advertising. News broadcasts, including the necessary infrastructure, would be reduced and would have to be massively restricted. Jarren also believes that it is to be expected that today's advertising revenue will not be redistributed among Swiss TV stations, but would flow into online media or advertising 'windows' of foreign stations.	Society, Business	Natalie Rickli	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
3_10	The market can take care of itself if we only let it. (...) With public funding, private competition is overshadowed.	Mostly False	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/public-broadcasting-debate_fact-check--the-case-for-and-against-licence-fees/43548304	Adrian Amstutz, Swiss People's Party End of quote Amstutz refers to the situation of the Swiss media market. In his opinion, the SBC's strong position is accompanied by a market distortion that would affect private media providers and adversely affect diversity. His criticism is basically a critique of the current structure of the public service, which he believes contains too many superfluous, not directly democratically relevant programmes. A critical discussion about the breadth and depth of the range of services provided is entirely legitimate. However, to fundamentally question the SBC's public service on the basis of individual points of criticism is neither proportionate nor far-sighted in terms of state policy. This would not only jeopardise cost-intensive quality radio and TV programming, it would also hurt the Latin language regions of Switzerland that currently benefit from the redistribution of fees. This would be significantly affected by halving or abolishing them. Beatrice Egli Swiss pop music singer Beatrice Egli rehearses for a TV show in Germany. (Keystone) It is also impossible to ignore the claim that the SBC would compete with private companies. Article 29 of the Radio and Television Act (RTVA) states that unlicensed activities may be prohibited by the Communications Office if the scope of other media companies is considerably restricted. It is true, however, that private companies are increasingly taking a bigger piece of the cake. The main reason for this, however, is not the SBC, but internet giants such as Google and Facebook, which are skimming off an ever-growing share of the advertising market.	Society, Business	Adrian Amstutz,	Sandro Lüscher, Stephanie Hess, Larissa M. Bieler, Reto Gysi von Wartburg, Marguerite Meyer, Kai Reusser	None	Fact check: the case for and against licence fees	11 October 2017	None
4	We have the best public services in the world. With the Swiss Federal Railways or the Post buses you can reach even the most remote areas of Switzerland	TRUE	http://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/fact-checking_does-switzerland-really-have-the-best-public-services-in-the-world/42173538	“We have the best public services in the world. With the Swiss Federal Railways or the Post buses you can reach even the most remote areas of Switzerland,” Leuthard claimed on May 12 in an interview with the German-language free newspaper 20 Minuten. Grand words and great praise for the Swiss public services. According to Leuthard, who heads the environment, transport, energy and communications ministry, this would no longer be true if the people’s initiative "Pro Service public" is passed at the ballot box on June 5. "This initiative offers false promises. It would weaken our public services and burn a hole in the federal budget,” she said in the same interview. But what makes Leuthard convinced that Switzerland has the best public services in the world? Since there is no international index that measures the performance of public services in various countries, we could only partially check Leuthard’s assertions, and only in selected sectors. Swiss Federal Railways come out on top In March 2015 the Boston Consulting Group released a reportexternal link in which it compared the performance of federal railways in a variety of European countries. The experts at the multinational consulting firm analysed three elements: how often the trains were used, the quality of service (including punctuality) and safety. As in the last evaluation in 2012, Switzerland earned a score of 7.1 out of 10 and occupied first place, before Sweden and Denmark. railway performance indexThe following content is sourced from external partners. We cannot guarantee that it is suitable for the visually or hearing impaired. An extensive post office network Evaluating the performance of the federal postal service is a difficult task. Data from the Universal Postal Unionexternal link at least made it possible to get an idea of the coverage provided. In the past 15 years the Swiss Post has significantly restructured its services. There were 3,383 post offices in the year 2000, but by 2014 there were only 2,222. In numerous villages alternatives were introduced, such as the handling of some postal services in other types of shops. Whereas in 2000 there was one post office location per 2,146 residents, that ratio was reduced to one location per 3,500 residents in 2014. The following graphic shows that coverage by the Swiss postal network remained more or less the same over the 14-year period, even if the country’s services are not among the best. post officeThe following content is sourced from external partners. We cannot guarantee that it is suitable for the visually or hearing impaired. When punctuality of delivery is considered, however, Switzerland is again among the leaders. In 2013, according to a release from the Federal Postal Commission 97.6% of all letters sent by priority mail (A Post) were delivered on the following business day. Even if the differences in the European Unionexternal link were minimal (most countries delivered more than 90% of their priority letters on time), only Luxembourg came close to Switzerland’s high note. A further interesting figure is the average area covered by a single post office. In this case as well, the Swiss postal network could be described as outstanding: on average there is one post office per 18.5km2 (7.14 square miles). Only Germany and the Netherlands are better.	DIRECT DEMOCRACY, POLITICS	Doris Leuthard	Daniele Mariani	None	Does Switzerland really have the best public services in the world?	23 May 2016	None