claim_id  claim  label  claim_url  reason  categories  speaker  checker  tags  article_title  publish_date  claim_date
None   Statement: “Almost all homelessness is linked to drugs or alcohol,” El Cajon Mayor Bill Wells said in an Oct. 29 interview with Fox 5 San Diego.   Determination: False   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/news/fact-check-homelessness-tied-drugs-alcohol/   Analysis: El Cajon has the region’s second-largest number of hepatitis A cases, and city leaders there have redoubled efforts to combat the health crisis recently.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Is Most Homelessness Tied to Drugs and Alcohol?   November 9, 2017   None
None   Statement: “The county of San Diego is holding over $100 million in unspent Mental Health Services Act funds,” state Sen. Ben Hueso said at an Oct. 12 press conference where Democrats and labor leaders called on county supervisors to spend more to combat the region’s homelessness and hepatitis A crises.   Determination: True   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/government/fact-check-100m-mental-health-sitting-bank/   Analysis: Democrats and homeless advocates have long called on the county to invest more of its ample cash in programs to aid San Diegans struggling with homelessness and mental illness.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: More than $100M for Mental Health Is Sitting in the Bank   November 3, 2017   None
None   Statement: “This district has gone down in enrollment every single year, for I don’t know how many years, and yet we have not reduced the workforce commensurately with that. I mean that’s the reality,” San Diego Unified School District board member Sharon Whitehurst-Payne said at the April 25 board meeting.   Determination: True   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/education/fact-check-san-diego-unified-has-more-staffers-but-fewer-students/   Analysis: To help cut more than $124 million from next year’s budget, San Diego school leaders planned to let go of roughly 1,000 employees, though district officials said final layoff numbers are still not available.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: San Diego Unified Has More Staffers but Fewer Students   June 27, 2017   None
None   Statement: The city of San Diego “Lost 1,000 conventions & events in last two years,” due to the lack of a San Diego Convention Center expansion, San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer tweeted June 12.   Determination: False   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/politics/fact-check-san-diego-miss-1000-conventions/   Analysis: The future of the long-delayed waterfront expansion to the San Diego Convention Center almost brightened this week, but was ultimately delayed again when the San Diego City Council declined to set a special election for the mayor’s expansion plan.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Did San Diego Miss Out on 1,000 Conventions?   June 16, 2017   None
None   Statement: “California is currently ranked 46th in the nation on per pupil funding, and San Diego Unified is one of many districts across the state facing a spending shortfall for next year,” the school district wrote in an April 20 press release.   Determination: A stretch   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/education/fact-check-californias-not-blame-district-budget-woes/   Analysis: While grappling with deep budget cuts this year, San Diego Unified School District officials have repeatedly pointed to Sacramento as a cause of the problem. The district now plans to lay off roughly 1,700 employees next school year to balance the budget.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: California's Not to Blame for District Budget Woes   April 25, 2017   None
None   Statement: “Ricardo Flores Takes Our Money. Doesn’t Show Up For Work.” – A campaign mailer sent by Georgette Gomez attacking her opponent in the City Council District 9 race, Ricardo Flores.   Determination: Misleading   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/politics/fact-check-ricardo-flores-work-politics-balancing-act/   Analysis: Ricardo Flores is chief of staff to current District 9 Councilwoman Marti Emerald, who is not running for another term. He’s running to replace Emerald and has her endorsement.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Ricardo Flores' Work-Politics Balancing Act   November 1, 2016   None
None   ­Statement: “(Measure T) adds up to 4,000 high-density housing units,” the Committee Opposed to Encinitas Measure T wrote in a flier, a similar version of which was presented by former Planning Commissioner Bruce Ehlers at a forum on Oct. 16.   Determination: Misleading   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/land-use/fact-check-4000-new-homes-encinitas/   Analysis: Encinitas residents will be asked on Election Day to approve Measure T, a series of zoning changes that include higher residential densities, mixed-use development and taller buildings as part of a plan dubbed “At Home in Encinitas.”   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: 4,000 New Homes in Encinitas   October 26, 2016   None
None   Statement: “City Council candidate Georgette Gomez is currently under investigation by the Fair Political Practices Commission for failure to disclose her financial interests, as required by state law.” – A campaign mailer sent by a group opposing District 9 City Council candidate Georgette Gomez called Public Safety Advocates   Determination: Misleading   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/politics/fact-check-investigation-name/   Analysis: There are watchdog government agencies across the country created to investigate complaints of wrongdoing. They exist for very good reason but, come election time, their work is often exploited by political operatives.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: An Investigation in Name Only   October 25, 2016   None
None   Statement: “Even more, the initiative would relieve existing obligations at Qualcomm Stadium that are currently paid out of the general fund totaling $15 million per year.” – From the ballot argument in favor of Measure C by Jerry Sanders, Carol Kim, Juan Vargas, Nicholas Segura and John Thomson.   Determination: Misleading   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/politics/fact-check-pro-chargers-ballot-language-leaves-something-big-out/   Analysis: Whatever you want to say about the Chargers initiative to build a new convadium in downtown San Diego, let this fact be perfectly clear: The city of San Diego loses a ton of money every year on Qualcomm Stadium in Mission Valley.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Pro-Chargers Ballot Language Leaves Something Big Out   September 7, 2016   None
None   Statement: “SAN DIEGO COUNTY ROAD REPAIR, TRANSIT, TRAFFIC RELIEF, SAFETY AND WATER QUALITY MEASURE: Shall an ordinance be adopted to: repair roads, deteriorating bridges; relieve congestion; provide every community funds for pothole/street repairs; expand public transit, including improved services for seniors, disabled, students, veterans; reduce polluted runoff; preserve open space to protect water quality/reduce wildfires by enacting, with independent oversight/audits, a 40-year, half-cent local sales tax ($308 million annually) that Sacramento cannot take away?” reads the title and ballot language for Measure A, a countywide measure appearing on the November ballot (emphasis ours).   Determination: A Stretch   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/land-use/fact-check-will-a-sales-tax-hike-relieve-traffic-congestion/   Analysis: The San Diego Association of Governments hasn’t been shy about touting the benefits county residents will feel if they pass its proposed ballot measure in November. One of the proposal’s major selling points is that the projects the measure would fund will relieve traffic congestion.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Will a Sales Tax Hike Relieve Traffic Congestion?   August 23, 2016   None
None   Statement: “The nonprofit Save San Diego Neighborhoods has estimated that over 6,000 properties in San Diego have been converted into permanent mini-hotels, which is disruptive to communities and needs to stop. Just ask anyone who lives next to one. Viewed in terms of affordable housing, these 6,000 homes are essentially removed from the rental or home purchasing market, directly contributing to the housing shortage,” Barbara Bry, a candidate for San Diego City Council District 1, wrote in a VOSD op-ed April 13.   Determination: False   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/land-use/fact-check-vacation-rentals-making-housing-shortage-worse/   Analysis: The advent of Airbnb and other home-sharing sites increased tourist access to once out-of-reach communities across San Diego. But not all local residents like their new, temporary neighbors.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Are Vacation Rentals Making the Housing Shortage Worse?   May 18, 2016   None
None   Statement: “The new proposal from SANDAG … 14 percent goes to freeways and 40 percent goes to public transportation. … Public transportation is good for San Diego. It’s not good for a suburban environment in North County. North County is – what – a third of the county, 1.2 million, and we need to get our fair share of taxpayers’ money,” said Escondido Mayor Sam Abed, at a District 3 county supervisor debate on April 21 in Rancho Santa Fe.   Determination: A Stretch   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/land-use/fact-check-north-county-wants-its-fair-share-of-sandag-tax/   None   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: North County Wants Its ‘Fair Share’ of SANDAG Tax   May 16, 2016   None
None   None   None   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/public-safety/fact-check-why-officers-are-or-are-not-leaving-sdpd/   None   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Police Chief Offers No Evidence for Media Slam   April 22, 2016   None
None   Statement: “Seventy-five percent of transportation funding in the next five years will go to transit, up from 50 percent in the last five years,” said Councilman Todd Gloria, in a statement touting his support of the San Diego Association of Government’s 30-year transportation plan.   Determination: A Stretch   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-sandags-transit-progress-or-lack-thereof/   Analysis: For politicians supporting the region’s new 30-year transportation plan, there was a common explanation: The plan spends most of its money on transit, not highways. And as a region we’re gradually moving away from highway building as our primary transportation solution.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: SANDAG's Transit Progress, or Lack Thereof   November 19, 2015   None
None   Statement: “So I think what we’re trying to get at in Vision 2020 and emphasis on quality neighborhood schools, is an awareness that the goals of the Carlin case, the goals of integration, were noble goals, but the consequence is we segregated our students. In many ways our students are more segregated having come out of a couple of decades of an infrastructure built around integration,” San Diego Unified trustee Richard Barrera said during a meeting with district officials on Oct. 6.   None   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/education/fact-check-san-diego-schools-segregation-problem/   Analysis: It’s an important time to unpack Barrera’s statement: Under way is Vision 2020, the centerpiece of which is the district’s plan to keep kids in their neighborhood schools.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: San Diego Schools' Segregation Problem   November 3, 2015   None
None   Statement: “The zoo, for example, has to turn away people 100 days out of the year,” said Tomas Herrera-Mishler, CEO of the Balboa Park Conservancy, during a Voice of San Diego live podcast at Thorn St. Brewery on July 23.   Determination: Unfounded   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/news/fact-check-the-zoos-untamed-beast-its-parking-lot/   Analysis: As Balboa Park planners look to polish what’s known as the crown jewel of San Diego, a major question is how much of a problem parking is for visitors.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: The Zoo's Untamed Beast — Its Parking Lot   August 7, 2015   None
None   Statement: “Criminal prosecution is a tiny part of the responsibilities of that office.” — Political consultant Tom Shepard, who is consulting for San Diego city attorney candidate Gil Cabrera, said about the city attorney’s office in the San Diego Union-Tribune on July 6.   Determination: False   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-little-crime-time-for-city-prosecutors/   Analysis: With Mayor Kevin Faulconer so far coasting toward a second term, the battle to replace a termed-out Jan Goldsmith as city attorney could be the only prominent citywide race on the ballot next year.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Little Crime Time for City Prosecutors?   July 22, 2015   None
None   Statement: “El Cajon is the poorest city in the county,” said former state Sen. Wadie Deddeh in a June 9 Voice of San Diego op-ed.   Determination: Mostly True   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/economy/fact-check-the-poorest-city-in-san-diego-county/   Analysis: El Cajon has long been home to many of San Diego County’s poorer residents, but the city is now in the middle of a heated conversation about its future. Former state lawmaker Wadie Deddeh supports local government reforms being pushed by Neighborhood Market Association head Mark Arabo, including term limits for City Council members and median income caps for city officials.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Where San Diego's Poorest Live   June 19, 2015   None
None   Statement: “Threats of school violence have increased to an alarming rate and individuals need to know they’ll be held responsible if they make such threats,” District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis said in a press release last month.   Determination: True   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-more-threats-of-violence-at-san-diego-schools/   Analysis: You may have seen news reports on the recent spate of school lockdowns spurred by school bomb or shooting threats.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: More Threats of Violence at San Diego Schools   May 13, 2015   None
None   Statement: “Please build them one. They’ll have a Super Bowl there every five years,” ESPN personality Chris Berman on the Chargers stadium search during the NFL Draft, April 30.   Determination: Unfounded   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/news/fact-check-the-super-bowl-rotation-myth/   Analysis: It was the Chargers’ turn to pick in the first round of the annual NFL Draft Thursday night and the ESPN talking heads were doing what they they do best. Longtime NFL analyst Chris Berman turned the conversation to the future of the team in San Diego. He started with a plea to fans about a new stadium.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: The Super Bowl Rotation Myth   May 1, 2015   None
None   Statement: “The litigation (over the plume) continues, and the uncertainty over its resolution could be an impediment to developing the site. No developer is going to want to get tied up in a lengthy environmental cleanup process unless there is some solution in sight,” Fabiani wrote in a Feb. 26 web chat with fans.   Determination: Misleading   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-the-plume-makes-a-plum-red-herring/   None   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: The Plume Makes a Plum Red Herring   March 23, 2015   None
None   Statement: In San Diego County, one out of five released prisoners “are high coming out of [state] prison,” said Jeffrey Beard, California secretary of corrections, in a state budget hearing. His comments were reported in a March 3 Los Angeles Times article.   Determination: False   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-no-20-percent-of-released-prisoners-arent-high/   Analysis: An L.A. Times story earlier this month included testimony given by Jeffrey Beard, the state secretary of corrections, during a budget hearing. “Everybody will tell you drugs are readily available in all of the prisons in California,” said Beard, who told legislators about new state prison efforts to stop the drug trade behind bars.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: No, 20 Percent of Released Prisoners Aren't 'High'   March 16, 2015   None
None   Statement: “I do think we have possibly the lowest compensated mayor in the top 10 cities,” political strategist Laura Fink said on an episode of NBC 7’s “Politically Speaking” earlier this month.   Determination: False   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-what-the-mayor-makes/   Analysis: The controversy surrounding salaries for San Diego politicians is not a new one.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: What the Mayor Makes   March 6, 2015   None
None   Statement: “City currently receives about $2.5 million in rent annually from the Chargers,” says a city document provided to Mayor Kevin Faulconer’s Chargers stadium task force.   Determination: Misleading   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-city-pays-chargers-play-qualcomm-stadium/   Analysis: In theory, the Chargers have to pay the city of San Diego rent each year to play at Qualcomm Stadium. In reality, it’s the city that pays the Chargers.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: The City Pays the Chargers to Play at Qualcomm Stadium   February 20, 2015   None
None   Statement: “It’s been incredible to watch the outcome of the programs in Sonoma and Marin because they’ve been extremely successful and they’ve been able to provide lower rates to all residences and all businesses in Marin and Sonoma with a higher renewable energy content,” Climate Action Campaign executive director Nicole Capretz said during a Jan. 25 appearance on NBC San Diego’s “Politically Speaking.”   Determination: True   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/fact/fact-check-community-choice-lowers-energy-rates/   Analysis: A handful of California communities have opted to stop relying solely on utilities to buy energy. San Diego environmentalists want that option to exist here.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Community Choice Lowers Energy Rates   February 17, 2015   None
None   Statement: “I’m not a politician,” Scott Sherman, a person who holds a political office on San Diego’s City Council, told KPBS.   Determination: Huckster Propaganda   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/city-council/fact-check-is-san-diego-city-councilman-scott-sherman-a-politician/   Analysis: Yes, he is.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: Is San Diego City Councilman Scott Sherman a Politician?   January 23, 2015   None
None   Statement: “In San Ysidro, ambulance help is arriving a full minute faster than before. In Skyline, we’re opening a temporary fire station to immediately improve emergency service. In Encanto, we boosted Fire-Rescue response by three minutes,” Mayor Kevin Faulconer said in his State of the City address on Jan. 14.   Determination: True   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/news/fact-check-the-mayors-response-to-emergency-response/   Analysis: During his first year in office, Mayor Kevin Faulconer has tried to emphasize his support for the city’s lower-income communities.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: The Mayor’s Response to Emergency Response   January 22, 2015   None
None   Statement: “San Diego today is the largest city in the United States that has run out of raw land. Except in the largely industrial Otay Mesa area, it is simply not possible for San Diego to continue growing in this traditional way,” former San Diego planning director Bill Fulton wrote in a Jan. 3 U-T San Diego op-ed.   Determination: True   https://www.voiceofsandiego.org/topics/news/fact-check-san-diegos-dearth-of-raw-land/   Analysis: San Diego’s in the midst of a major push-pull over the future of development.   None   None   None   None   Fact Check: San Diego's Dearth of Raw Land   January 9, 2015   None
