claim_id	claim	label	claim_url	reason	categories	speaker	checker	tags	article_title	publish_date	claim_date
0_2	Claim: Over 3.3 crore students benefitted during 2014-16, with scholarships worth Rs. 7565 crore.	Fact: The total number of beneficiaries during 2014-16 is 6.99 crore and the total amount of central assistance released is Rs. 7050.22 crore. Both the number of beneficiaries & the amount of central assistance hasn’t changed much from the last two years of the UPA government.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-the-allocation-for-scholarships-of-scs-obcs-increased/	Fact: The total number of beneficiaries during 2014-16 is 6.99 crore and the total amount of central assistance released is Rs. 7050.22 crore. Both the number of beneficiaries & the amount of central assistance hasn’t changed much from the last two years of the UPA government.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has the allocation for Scholarships of SCs/OBCs increased?	None	None
0_3	Claim: Income eligibility has been raised from 44,500 rupees to 2.5 lakh rupees for the pre-metric scholarship for OBCs.	Fact: The income eligibility has indeed been raised from Rs. 44,500 in 2016-17 to Rs. 2,50,000 in 2017-18. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-the-allocation-for-scholarships-of-scs-obcs-increased/	Fact: The income eligibility has indeed been raised from Rs. 44,500 in 2016-17 to Rs. 2,50,000 in 2017-18. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has the allocation for Scholarships of SCs/OBCs increased?	None	None
1	Claim: Income eligibility has been raised from 2 lakh rupees to 2.5 lakh rupees for the pre-metric scholarship for SC students.	Fact: Income eligibility criteria for Pre-Matric Scholarships for Scheduled Castes Students studying in Class IX and X was raised from Rs. 2 Lakh to Rs. 2.5 Lakh. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-the-allocation-for-scholarships-of-scs-obcs-increased/	Fact: Income eligibility criteria for Pre-Matric Scholarships for Scheduled Castes Students studying in Class IX and X was raised from Rs. 2 Lakh to Rs. 2.5 Lakh. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has the allocation for Scholarships of SCs/OBCs increased?	None	None
1_2	Claim: A bank account has been created for every family in just four years.	Fact: 32.99 crore accounts have been opened under PMJDY but it is not possible to verify if each & every family has a bank account. Hence, the claim remains UNVERIFIED.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-jan-suraksha/	Fact: 32.99 crore accounts have been opened under PMJDY but it is not possible to verify if each & every family has a bank account. Hence, the claim remains UNVERIFIED.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on Jan Suraksha	None	None
1_3	Claim: 31.52 crore Jan Dhan accounts have been opened, equivalent to the population of USA.	Fact: A total of 32.99 crore accounts have been opened under PMJDY till date. The latest population of the USA is 32.88 crores. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-jan-suraksha/	Fact: A total of 32.99 crore accounts have been opened under PMJDY till date. The latest population of the USA is 32.88 crores. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on Jan Suraksha	None	None
1_4	Claim: Social security has been made a nationwide phenomenon with Jan Suraksha	Fact: This is a very subjective claim. However, there have existed similar schemes before 2014 as well. Hence, the claim is MISLEADING.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-jan-suraksha/	Fact: This is a very subjective claim. However, there have existed similar schemes before 2014 as well. Hence, the claim is MISLEADING.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on Jan Suraksha	None	None
2	Claim: More than 19 crore people have been insured against life and accident risk or ensured pension.	Fact: 5.3 crore people under PMJJBY, 13.5 crore under PMSBY and 1.08 crore people under APY have been covered. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-jan-suraksha/	Fact: 5.3 crore people under PMJJBY, 13.5 crore under PMSBY and 1.08 crore people under APY have been covered. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on Jan Suraksha	None	None
2_2	Claim: FDI equity flow has gone up by 47%.	Fact: The claim is very vague and the available data does not corroborate this number. Hence the claim is FALSE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-india-been-attracted-more-fdi-in-the-last-few-years/	Fact: The claim is very vague and the available data does not corroborate this number. Hence the claim is FALSE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has India attracted more FDI in the last few years?	None	None
3	Claim: There has been a rise from 36.05 billion USD in 2013-14 to 60.08 billion USD in 2016-17	Fact: Assuming that the numbers correspond to India’s Gross Foreign Direct Investment, the claim is TRUE. However, India’s net FDI inflows and the FDI to GDP ratio have decreased in the last two years	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-india-been-attracted-more-fdi-in-the-last-few-years/	Fact: Assuming that the numbers correspond to India’s Gross Foreign Direct Investment, the claim is TRUE. However, India’s net FDI inflows and the FDI to GDP ratio have decreased in the last two years	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has India attracted more FDI in the last few years?	None	None
3_2	Claim: India is the world number one in attracting Greenfield FDI.	Fact: As per the fDi intelligence, India was the highest ranked country in attracting Greenfield FDI in 2015 & 2016. However, in 2017, India was replaced by USA for the top spot. Hence the claim is only PARTLY TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-claims-on-indias-global-standing-in-fdi-inflows/	Fact: As per the fDi intelligence, India was the highest ranked country in attracting Greenfield FDI in 2015 & 2016. However, in 2017, India was replaced by USA for the top spot. Hence the claim is only PARTLY TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking claims on India’s global standing in FDI inflows	None	None
3_3	Claim: India ranked 9th on the foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows in 2016 – World Investment Report 2017.	Fact: It is true that India is ranked 9th in the list for 2016. However, FDI inflows decreased in the 2017 and India slipped to the 10th rank in 2017. Hence the claim is PARTLY TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-claims-on-indias-global-standing-in-fdi-inflows/	Fact: It is true that India is ranked 9th in the list for 2016. However, FDI inflows decreased in the 2017 and India slipped to the 10th rank in 2017. Hence the claim is PARTLY TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking claims on India’s global standing in FDI inflows	None	None
3_4	Claim: India ranked 3rd in the list of top prospective host economies for 2016-18 in the UNCTAD World Investment Report (WIR).	Fact:  India continues to be ranked 3rd in the list of prospective economies in WIR. This ranking has been more or less stable for a number of years. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-claims-on-indias-global-standing-in-fdi-inflows/	Fact:  India continues to be ranked 3rd in the list of prospective economies in WIR. This ranking has been more or less stable for a number of years. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking claims on India’s global standing in FDI inflows	None	None
4	Claim: Moody’s upgraded India sovereign credit rating from Baa3 to Baa2 for the first time in 14 years.	Fact: Moody’s Investors Service has upgraded the Government of India’s local and foreign currency issuer ratings to Baa2 from Baa3. India’s rating has been upgraded after a period of 13 years. Hence the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-claims-on-indias-global-standing-in-fdi-inflows/	Fact: Moody’s Investors Service has upgraded the Government of India’s local and foreign currency issuer ratings to Baa2 from Baa3. India’s rating has been upgraded after a period of 13 years. Hence the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking claims on India’s global standing in FDI inflows	None	None
4_2	Claim: Every village has been electrified under Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana.	Fact: While all inhabited villages as per the census were electrified by April 2018, this is not an achievement of the current government alone and not under the DDUGJY. Hence, the claim is MISLEADING.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-electrification-of-villages-homes/	Fact: While all inhabited villages as per the census were electrified by April 2018, this is not an achievement of the current government alone and not under the DDUGJY. Hence, the claim is MISLEADING.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on Electrification of Villages & Homes	None	None
5	Claim: Saubhagya to ensure electrification of 4 crore un-electrified homes by 31st December 2018.	Fact: The scheme has been launched in 2017 with the aim of electrifying 4 crore households. Since this claim talks about a future target, we will only know in December 2018 whether 4 crore un-electrified households have been electrified. Hence the claim remains UNVERIFIED.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-electrification-of-villages-homes/	Fact: The scheme has been launched in 2017 with the aim of electrifying 4 crore households. Since this claim talks about a future target, we will only know in December 2018 whether 4 crore un-electrified households have been electrified. Hence the claim remains UNVERIFIED.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on Electrification of Villages & Homes	None	None
5_2	Claim: Stipend for day scholars has been raised from ₹150 to ₹225 and for hostellers from ₹350  to ₹525.	Fact: Revision of maintenance allowance for Day Scholars from ₹150 per month to ₹225 per month and for Hostellers from ₹350 per month to ₹ 525 per month was done in September 2017. Hence this claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-increase-in-scholarship-amount-to-scs-obcs/	Fact: Revision of maintenance allowance for Day Scholars from ₹150 per month to ₹225 per month and for Hostellers from ₹350 per month to ₹ 525 per month was done in September 2017. Hence this claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on increase in Scholarship amount to SCs & OBCs	None	None
5_3	Claim: Free coaching for SC and OBC students, income eligibility raised from ₹4.5 lakhs to ₹6 lakh rupees	Fact: For Free coaching for SC and OBC students, the income eligibility has been raised from  ₹4.5 lakhs to ₹6 lakhs. This revision was made in 2016. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-increase-in-scholarship-amount-to-scs-obcs/	Fact: For Free coaching for SC and OBC students, the income eligibility has been raised from  ₹4.5 lakhs to ₹6 lakhs. This revision was made in 2016. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on increase in Scholarship amount to SCs & OBCs	None	None
5_4	Claim: Stipend has been raised from ₹1500 to ₹2500 for local students and from ₹3000 to ₹5000 for outstation students.	Fact: Stipend has been raised from  ₹1500 to ₹2500 for local students and from ₹3000 to ₹5000 per month for outstation students. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-increase-in-scholarship-amount-to-scs-obcs/	Fact: Stipend has been raised from  ₹1500 to ₹2500 for local students and from ₹3000 to ₹5000 per month for outstation students. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on increase in Scholarship amount to SCs & OBCs	None	None
6	Claim: For pre-matric scholarship for OBCs, the rates of scholarship increased substantially.	Fact: The rates have been doubled in certain cases and more than doubled in other cases. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-increase-in-scholarship-amount-to-scs-obcs/	Fact: The rates have been doubled in certain cases and more than doubled in other cases. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on increase in Scholarship amount to SCs & OBCs	None	None
7	Claim: Only 55 camps were conducted pre 2014 for distribution of support equipment to Divyangs while more than 6000 camps are conducted post 2014.	Fact: It is true that more than 6000 camps were conducted for PwDs under the ADIP scheme since 2014-15. But, it is false that only 55 camps were conducted pre 2014. Hence the claim is FALSE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-there-been-a-exponential-increase-in-camps-for-divyangs/	Fact: It is true that more than 6000 camps were conducted for PwDs under the ADIP scheme since 2014-15. But, it is false that only 55 camps were conducted pre 2014. Hence the claim is FALSE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has there been a exponential increase in camps for Divyangs?	None	None
8	Claim: The previous UPA government constructed only 25 lakh houses in their last 4 years where as the current government in the last 4 years constructed 1.25 crore houses, a difference of 1 crore houses.	Fact: The UPA in its last 4 years constructed 89.65 lakh houses and not 25 lakh houses. Hence the claim is FALSE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-did-the-upa-construct-only-25-lakh-houses-in-their-last-4-years/	Fact: The UPA in its last 4 years constructed 89.65 lakh houses and not 25 lakh houses. Hence the claim is FALSE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Did the UPA construct only 25 lakh houses in their last 4 years?	None	None
8_2	Claim: Reservations for Divyang persons in government jobs have been raised from 3% to 4%.	Fact: The change in the law governing the rights of people with disabilities has led to an increase in reservation in government jobs from 3% to 4% for persons with benchmark disabilities. In that sense, the claim is PARTLY TRUE since the reservation is only for persons with benchmark disabilities. But, it has to be noted that the draft bill of the new law which was introduced in the parliament by the UPA in 2014 provided for 5% reservation.	https://factly.in/fact-check-what-did-the-government-do-for-the-development-of-persons-with-disabilities/	Fact: The change in the law governing the rights of people with disabilities has led to an increase in reservation in government jobs from 3% to 4% for persons with benchmark disabilities. In that sense, the claim is PARTLY TRUE since the reservation is only for persons with benchmark disabilities. But, it has to be noted that the draft bill of the new law which was introduced in the parliament by the UPA in 2014 provided for 5% reservation.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: What did the government do for the development of Persons with Disabilities?	None	None
8_3	Claim: Unprecedented increase in camps for Divyangs (PwDs)	Fact: There has been a 40% increase in the average number of camps conducted for PwDs under the ADIP scheme. Hence the claim is TRUE	https://factly.in/fact-check-what-did-the-government-do-for-the-development-of-persons-with-disabilities/	Fact: There has been a 40% increase in the average number of camps conducted for PwDs under the ADIP scheme. Hence the claim is TRUE	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: What did the government do for the development of Persons with Disabilities?	None	None
8_4	Claim: Over 6 lakh Divyang people have benefitted from 5790 camps.	Fact: In the last 4 years, 6073 camps were organized which have benefitted 9.35 lakh people.  Hence, the claim is TRUE.  However, it has to be noted that the average number of beneficiaries under the ADIP scheme has not increased despite a substantial increase in the number of camps. Even under the UPA, the annual average number of beneficiaries was around 2.5 lakh.	https://factly.in/fact-check-what-did-the-government-do-for-the-development-of-persons-with-disabilities/	Fact: In the last 4 years, 6073 camps were organized which have benefitted 9.35 lakh people.  Hence, the claim is TRUE.  However, it has to be noted that the average number of beneficiaries under the ADIP scheme has not increased despite a substantial increase in the number of camps. Even under the UPA, the annual average number of beneficiaries was around 2.5 lakh.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: What did the government do for the development of Persons with Disabilities?	None	None
9	Claim: Rs1 lakh rupees health insurance cover to people with autism, cerebral palsy and many disabilities is being provided	Fact: Niramaya Health Insurance Scheme provides insurance cover up to Rs 1 lakh, by paying a nominal fee. This scheme was initiated and has been running since before 2014 and cannot be attributed to the present government. Hence, the claim is MISLEADING.	https://factly.in/fact-check-what-did-the-government-do-for-the-development-of-persons-with-disabilities/	Fact: Niramaya Health Insurance Scheme provides insurance cover up to Rs 1 lakh, by paying a nominal fee. This scheme was initiated and has been running since before 2014 and cannot be attributed to the present government. Hence, the claim is MISLEADING.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: What did the government do for the development of Persons with Disabilities?	None	None
9_2	Claim: Converting at least 50% of all the government buildings in the national capital and all state capitals fully accessible.	Fact: 58 out of the 75 selected central government buildings in 39 cities have been retrofitted as of March 2018. Since the claim is talking about a future target and not an achievement, it remains UNVERIFIED	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-accessibility-for-pwds-improved-in-the-last-four-years/	Fact: 58 out of the 75 selected central government buildings in 39 cities have been retrofitted as of March 2018. Since the claim is talking about a future target and not an achievement, it remains UNVERIFIED	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has Accessibility for PwDs improved in the last four years?	None	None
9_3	Claim: Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan has been launched by the government on 3rd December 2015 to provide dignity to divyangs.	Fact: Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan is the same as the accessible India campaign. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-accessibility-for-pwds-improved-in-the-last-four-years/	Fact: Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan is the same as the accessible India campaign. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has Accessibility for PwDs improved in the last four years?	None	None
9_4	Claim: Special camps have been organized for distribution of aids and assistive devices to 8 lakh persons with disabilities.	Fact: 275 Mega Camps/Special Camps were organized benefitting 3.01 lakh Divyangjans during the last four years. The total number of beneficiaries of the ADIP program in the last four years is more than 9 lakh, but the number of beneficiaries of special camps is only 3.01 lakh. Hence, the claim is FALSE. It also has to be noted that the average number of beneficiaries per year under this scheme during the UPA was also around 2.5 lakh, which has not changed during the current government.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-accessibility-for-pwds-improved-in-the-last-four-years/	Fact: 275 Mega Camps/Special Camps were organized benefitting 3.01 lakh Divyangjans during the last four years. The total number of beneficiaries of the ADIP program in the last four years is more than 9 lakh, but the number of beneficiaries of special camps is only 3.01 lakh. Hence, the claim is FALSE. It also has to be noted that the average number of beneficiaries per year under this scheme during the UPA was also around 2.5 lakh, which has not changed during the current government.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has Accessibility for PwDs improved in the last four years?	None	None
10	Claim: Access audit of 1662 important buildings in 50 cities has been completed till date.	Fact: Access audits of 1662 buildings in 50 cities completed by auditors. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-accessibility-for-pwds-improved-in-the-last-four-years/	Fact: Access audits of 1662 buildings in 50 cities completed by auditors. Hence, the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has Accessibility for PwDs improved in the last four years?	None	None
10_2	Claim: All 34 international airports and all 48 domestic airports have been provided with accessible feature.	Fact: All 34 International Airports & 48 Domestic Airports, have been provided with accessibility features. The infographic says all 48 domestic airports, but the number of domestic airports in India is more than 48. Hence, the claim is PARTLY TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-accessibility-for-persons-with-disabilities-pwds/	Fact: All 34 International Airports & 48 Domestic Airports, have been provided with accessibility features. The infographic says all 48 domestic airports, but the number of domestic airports in India is more than 48. Hence, the claim is PARTLY TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs)	None	None
10_3	Claim: 644 out of the 709 railway stations have been provided with accessibility features for persons with disabilities.	Fact: Out of 709 A1, A & B category railway stations, 653 are made accessible in short term features. The claim does not mention that 709 is only the number of A1, A and B category stations and not all railway stations. The claim also does not mention that these stations were made accessible with short term features and a lesser number with long-term features. However, the numbers are right. Hence, the claim is PARTLY TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-accessibility-for-persons-with-disabilities-pwds/	Fact: Out of 709 A1, A & B category railway stations, 653 are made accessible in short term features. The claim does not mention that 709 is only the number of A1, A and B category stations and not all railway stations. The claim also does not mention that these stations were made accessible with short term features and a lesser number with long-term features. However, the numbers are right. Hence, the claim is PARTLY TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs)	None	None
11	Claim: The third claim is that 917 identified websites of state governments/UTs will be made accessible through ERNET India.	Fact: ERNET has been given 917 websites across 20 states and 3 UTs of the country to make them accessible and responsive. Hence, the claim is TRUE. However, it has to be noted that this is not yet achieved and will be done in future.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-accessibility-for-persons-with-disabilities-pwds/	Fact: ERNET has been given 917 websites across 20 states and 3 UTs of the country to make them accessible and responsive. Hence, the claim is TRUE. However, it has to be noted that this is not yet achieved and will be done in future.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs)	None	None
12	Claim: Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre (ISLRTC) established.	Fact: ISLRTC was first established as an autonomous center in IGNOU in 2011 which was later closed down. It was established as an independent society in  2015 by the current government. Hence, the claim is only PARTLY TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-scholarship-to-persons-with-disability/	Fact: ISLRTC was first established as an autonomous center in IGNOU in 2011 which was later closed down. It was established as an independent society in  2015 by the current government. Hence, the claim is only PARTLY TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on Scholarship to Persons with Disability	None	None
12_2	Claim: The types of disabilities have been increased from the existing 7 to 21.	Fact: The PWD act of 1995 contained 7 disabilities. The Rights of persons with disabilities act of 2016 provides for 21 types. Hence, the claim is TRUE. But it has to be noted that this legislation was introduced by the previous UPA government and passed by the current government.	https://factly.in/rights-of-persons-with-disabilities-act/	Fact: The PWD act of 1995 contained 7 disabilities. The Rights of persons with disabilities act of 2016 provides for 21 types. Hence, the claim is TRUE. But it has to be noted that this legislation was introduced by the previous UPA government and passed by the current government.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on the ‘Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act’	None	None
12_3	Claim: Speech and language disability and specific learning disability have been added for the first time.	Fact: The PWD act of 1995 did not previously consider speech, language and learning disabilities. While it is TRUE that these have been added for the  first time, it has to be noted that both these types were also part of the original bill introduced by the UPA.	https://factly.in/rights-of-persons-with-disabilities-act/	Fact: The PWD act of 1995 did not previously consider speech, language and learning disabilities. While it is TRUE that these have been added for the  first time, it has to be noted that both these types were also part of the original bill introduced by the UPA.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on the ‘Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act’	None	None
12_4	Claim: Acid attack victims have been included in the list of people considered as disabled.	Fact: Under the new act, acid attack victims are considered physically disabled. Hence the claim is TRUE. It should also be noted that ‘acid attack victims’ as a category was not included in the original bill introduced by the UPA.	https://factly.in/rights-of-persons-with-disabilities-act/	Fact: Under the new act, acid attack victims are considered physically disabled. Hence the claim is TRUE. It should also be noted that ‘acid attack victims’ as a category was not included in the original bill introduced by the UPA.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on the ‘Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act’	None	None
12_5	Claim: Right to free education for children with disabilities (6-18yrs) and reservation of 4% seats for students in higher education institutions.	Fact: Right to free education is provided for children in the 6-18 age group & reservation of not less than 5% is provided in higher educational institutions for those with benchmark disabilities, but not to everyone with a disability. Hence, the claim is PARTLY TRUE. Again, it has to be noted that both these provisions were also part of the original bill introduced by the UPA in 2014.	https://factly.in/rights-of-persons-with-disabilities-act/	Fact: Right to free education is provided for children in the 6-18 age group & reservation of not less than 5% is provided in higher educational institutions for those with benchmark disabilities, but not to everyone with a disability. Hence, the claim is PARTLY TRUE. Again, it has to be noted that both these provisions were also part of the original bill introduced by the UPA in 2014.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on the ‘Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act’	None	None
13	Claim: Provided for penalties for offences committed against persons with disabilities (PwDs)	Fact: Chapter 16 of the Rights of persons with disabilities Act, 2016 provides for the penalties. Hence, the claim is TRUE.  However,It has to be noted that penalties were also part of the original bill introduced by the UPA government in 2014.	https://factly.in/rights-of-persons-with-disabilities-act/	Fact: Chapter 16 of the Rights of persons with disabilities Act, 2016 provides for the penalties. Hence, the claim is TRUE.  However,It has to be noted that penalties were also part of the original bill introduced by the UPA government in 2014.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government Claims on the ‘Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act’	None	None
14	Claim: More than 1.26 crore Sukanya Samriddhi accounts have been opened for the girl child with over 19,183 crores deposited and that financial future has been secured for crores of girls.	Fact: As on 30th June 2018, 1,39,85,442 accounts have been opened under SSY and a total amount of Rs 25979.62 crore  has been deposited. The numbers are higher than the claim because of the dynamic nature of the scheme. Hence, this claim is TRUE. But the claim that financial future has been secured for crores of girls is FALSE since only 1.39 crore accounts have been opened under the SSY and this is less than 15% of the total female population in the 0-10 age group as per the 2011 census.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-on-welfare-of-the-girl-child/	Fact: As on 30th June 2018, 1,39,85,442 accounts have been opened under SSY and a total amount of Rs 25979.62 crore  has been deposited. The numbers are higher than the claim because of the dynamic nature of the scheme. Hence, this claim is TRUE. But the claim that financial future has been secured for crores of girls is FALSE since only 1.39 crore accounts have been opened under the SSY and this is less than 15% of the total female population in the 0-10 age group as per the 2011 census.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking Government claims on ‘Welfare of the Girl Child’	None	None
14_2	Claim: Over 3,65,996 crores rupees have been directly transferred into the bank accounts of beneficiaries for 432 schemes in last 4 years.	Fact: More than Rs 4.6 lakh crore have been transferred into the accounts of people availing 464 schemes and services from 57 different ministries. Hence, the claim is TRUE. But it has to be noted that the DBT initiative was started during the UPA-2 government.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-over-use-of-technology/	Fact: More than Rs 4.6 lakh crore have been transferred into the accounts of people availing 464 schemes and services from 57 different ministries. Hence, the claim is TRUE. But it has to be noted that the DBT initiative was started during the UPA-2 government.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking government claims over use of Technology	None	None
14_3	Claim: Aadhaar has been given legislative framework	Fact: The Aadhaar act has been passed in 2016 but the Supreme Court struck down some major provisions of the act in 2018. Hence, the claim is PARTIALLY TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-over-use-of-technology/	Fact: The Aadhaar act has been passed in 2016 but the Supreme Court struck down some major provisions of the act in 2018. Hence, the claim is PARTIALLY TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking government claims over use of Technology	None	None
14_4	Claim:  More than 1 crore income tax payers linked their Aadhaar with PAN.	Fact: Since it has been made mandatory, more than 16.84 crore PANs have been linked to Aadhaar but how many of them are paying tax cannot be verified. Hence, the claim is UNVERIFIED.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-over-use-of-technology/	Fact: Since it has been made mandatory, more than 16.84 crore PANs have been linked to Aadhaar but how many of them are paying tax cannot be verified. Hence, the claim is UNVERIFIED.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking government claims over use of Technology	None	None
15	Claim: GEM online platform for government procurement from vendors to reduce corruption and increase transparency	Fact: The platform has been made operational. The contribution of the platform to reducing corruption and increasing transparency cannot be verified. Hence, the claim is UNVERIFIED.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-government-claims-over-use-of-technology/	Fact: The platform has been made operational. The contribution of the platform to reducing corruption and increasing transparency cannot be verified. Hence, the claim is UNVERIFIED.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking government claims over use of Technology	None	None
15_2	Claim: The government ensured clean auctions of coal blocks and telecom spectrum and set a new benchmark.	Fact: It is TRUE that the coal blocks were auctioned & telecom spectrum was also auctioned, but whether it set a benchmark is something that cannot be verified. Also, the auction of telecom spectrum is not new.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-on-auctions-clearances/	Fact: It is TRUE that the coal blocks were auctioned & telecom spectrum was also auctioned, but whether it set a benchmark is something that cannot be verified. Also, the auction of telecom spectrum is not new.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s claims on Auctions & Clearances	None	None
15_3	Claim: Online application made mandatory for all clearances	Fact: It is TRUE that all project proponents have to now make online applications for environmental & forest clearance.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-on-auctions-clearances/	Fact: It is TRUE that all project proponents have to now make online applications for environmental & forest clearance.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s claims on Auctions & Clearances	None	None
15_4	Claim: Government has abolished interviews for non-gazetted posts	Fact: Government has dispensed interview for all group C and non-gazetted posts of group B category in the central government. Hence, the claim is TRUE	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-on-auctions-clearances/	Fact: Government has dispensed interview for all group C and non-gazetted posts of group B category in the central government. Hence, the claim is TRUE	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s claims on Auctions & Clearances	None	None
16	Claim: The time taken for environmental approvals has been brought down to 180 days from 600 days.	Fact: The time taken for environmental approvals was 600 days prior to 2014 and it was 177 days in 2017. Hence, the claim is TRUE. The reduction in time taken could be because of multiple reasons like changes in process etc.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-on-auctions-clearances/	Fact: The time taken for environmental approvals was 600 days prior to 2014 and it was 177 days in 2017. Hence, the claim is TRUE. The reduction in time taken could be because of multiple reasons like changes in process etc.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s claims on Auctions & Clearances	None	None
16_2	Claim: The number of ITRs filed during FY 2017-18 is 6.84 crore, a jump of 80.5% compared to FY 2013-14.	Fact: The number of ITRs filed have increased substantially over the last 4 financial years from 3.79 crores to 6.84 crores. Hence, the claim is TRUE. But the total direct tax collections have not increased proportionately.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-over-formalization-of-economy/	Fact: The number of ITRs filed have increased substantially over the last 4 financial years from 3.79 crores to 6.84 crores. Hence, the claim is TRUE. But the total direct tax collections have not increased proportionately.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s Claims over formalization of Economy	None	None
16_3	Claim: More than 1 crore taxpayers registered with GST, including 35 lakh new taxpayers.	Fact: As of December 2017, close to 1 crore taxpayers were registered under GST out of which 34.22 lakh were new. Hence the claim is TRUE	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-over-formalization-of-economy/	Fact: As of December 2017, close to 1 crore taxpayers were registered under GST out of which 34.22 lakh were new. Hence the claim is TRUE	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s Claims over formalization of Economy	None	None
16_4	Claim: 50 lakh new bank accounts opened for cashless, transparent transfer of wages, benefitting workers.	Fact: The claim is unclear and hence, UNVERIFIED	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-over-formalization-of-economy/	Fact: The claim is unclear and hence, UNVERIFIED	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s Claims over formalization of Economy	None	None
17	Claim: More than 1.01 crore additional workers enrolled with EPFO and more than 1.3 crore workers registered with ESIC post-demonetization	Fact: 1.01 crore employees were enrolled into EPFO under the enrolment campaign, 2017 between 1st January 2017 and 30th June 2017. A new set of 1.03 crore people who came under the ambit of the ESIC between the years 2015-16 and 2016-17. Hence the claim is TRUE.	https://factly.in/fact-checking-the-governments-claims-over-formalization-of-economy/	Fact: 1.01 crore employees were enrolled into EPFO under the enrolment campaign, 2017 between 1st January 2017 and 30th June 2017. A new set of 1.03 crore people who came under the ambit of the ESIC between the years 2015-16 and 2016-17. Hence the claim is TRUE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Checking the Government’s Claims over formalization of Economy	None	None
18	Fact Check: Has India improved in Global EoDB & Competitiveness Index rankings in the last 4 years?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-india-improved-in-global-eodb-competitiveness-index-rankings-in-the-last-4-years/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has India improved in Global EoDB & Competitiveness Index rankings in the last 4 years?	None	None
19	Fact Check: In whose tenure did ‘Exports’ grow faster?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-in-whose-tenure-did-exports-grow-faster/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: In whose tenure did ‘Exports’ grow faster?	None	None
20	Fact Check: Are more people travelling in Airplanes than in AC trains?	Fact: While it is true that the National Civil Aviation Policy was unveiled in 2016, it is not clear what the government meant by transformation of the sector. Hence the claim is UNVERIFIED.	https://factly.in/fact-check-are-more-people-travelling-in-airplanes-than-in-ac-trains/	Fact: While it is true that the National Civil Aviation Policy was unveiled in 2016, it is not clear what the government meant by transformation of the sector. Hence the claim is UNVERIFIED.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Are more people travelling in Airplanes than in AC trains?	None	None
20_2	Claim: Modi government paid off the pending bills of the Oil Bonds.	Fact: The Modi government paid only Rs 3,500 crore worth oil bonds which matured in 2015 and Oil Bonds worth Rs 1.3 lakh crore are still pending. Hence this claim is FALSE.	https://factly.in/fact-check-how-much-did-the-modi-government-pay-for-the-upa-era-oil-bonds/	Fact: The Modi government paid only Rs 3,500 crore worth oil bonds which matured in 2015 and Oil Bonds worth Rs 1.3 lakh crore are still pending. Hence this claim is FALSE.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: How much did the Modi Government pay for the UPA era oil bonds?	None	None
21	Claim: Modi government paid interest of Rs 40,000 crore on oil bonds.	Fact: The Modi government paid Rs 40,225 crore on interest for oil bonds. Hence this claim is TRUE. But it has to be noted that even the previous UPA government paid such interest and in fact a greater amount than the current government.	https://factly.in/fact-check-how-much-did-the-modi-government-pay-for-the-upa-era-oil-bonds/	Fact: The Modi government paid Rs 40,225 crore on interest for oil bonds. Hence this claim is TRUE. But it has to be noted that even the previous UPA government paid such interest and in fact a greater amount than the current government.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: How much did the Modi Government pay for the UPA era oil bonds?	None	None
22	Fact Check: Have Amendments to SC/ST PoA worked on ground?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-have-amendments-to-sc-st-poa-worked-on-ground/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Have Amendments to SC/ST PoA worked on ground?	None	None
23	Fact Check: In whose tenure did MSP increase at a greater rate?	Fact: From the above graph and corresponding table, we can see that under the UPA II government, the average growth for each crop (except wheat) was higher than during the current NDA government. The aggregate average growth of the MSP (all crops) during the UPA II rule was 11.28%, while that under the NDA government has been 4.91%.  These numbers were calculated by taking the average of average growth rates of all the crops during these periods. This results in a difference of 6.48 percentage points as opposed to what was claimed by Dr. Singh of 15.7 percentage points. Only in the case of Sugarcane was the difference between growth of MSP in two governments 15 percentage points.Although the magnitude of the difference is less than what is claimed, there is still a significant difference in the growth of MSP during the UPA and NDA governments. Hence the claim is PARTLY TRUE	https://factly.in/fact-check-in-whose-tenure-did-msp-increase-by-a-greater-percentage/	Fact: From the above graph and corresponding table, we can see that under the UPA II government, the average growth for each crop (except wheat) was higher than during the current NDA government. The aggregate average growth of the MSP (all crops) during the UPA II rule was 11.28%, while that under the NDA government has been 4.91%.  These numbers were calculated by taking the average of average growth rates of all the crops during these periods. This results in a difference of 6.48 percentage points as opposed to what was claimed by Dr. Singh of 15.7 percentage points. Only in the case of Sugarcane was the difference between growth of MSP in two governments 15 percentage points.Although the magnitude of the difference is less than what is claimed, there is still a significant difference in the growth of MSP during the UPA and NDA governments. Hence the claim is PARTLY TRUE	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: In whose tenure did MSP increase at a greater rate?	None	None
24	Fact Check: Have deposits by Indians in Swiss Banks decreased?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-have-deposits-by-indians-in-swiss-banks-decreased/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Have deposits by Indians in Swiss Banks decreased?	None	None
25	Fact Check: Did Japan & USA enforce temperature setting of Air Conditioners?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-did-japan-usa-enforce-temperature-setting-of-air-conditioners/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Did Japan & USA enforce temperature setting of Air Conditioners?	None	None
26	Fact Check: Will you be penalised for ‘giving lift’ to unknown persons?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-will-you-be-penalised-for-giving-lift-to-unknown-persons/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Will you be penalised for ‘giving lift’ to unknown persons?	None	None
27	Fact Check: Amit Shah is wrong. BJP lost only 6 seats with a margin less than NOTA	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-amit-shah-is-wrong-bjp-lost-only-6-seats-with-a-margin-less-than-nota/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Amit Shah is wrong. BJP lost only 6 seats with a margin less than NOTA	None	None
28	Fact Check: Are Padma Awardees accorded a ‘State Funeral’?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-padma-awardees-accorded-state-funeral/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Are Padma Awardees accorded a ‘State Funeral’?	None	None
29	Fact Check: News about Government Compensation in case of Accident Deaths is False	None	https://factly.in/news-government-compensation-case-accident-deaths-false/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: News about Government Compensation in case of Accident Deaths is False	None	None
30	Fact Check: Has the Government reduced over 60% budget for RTI?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-government-reduced-60-budget-rti/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has the Government reduced over 60% budget for RTI?	None	None
31	Fake News Alert: AICTE has not issued any Circular scrapping the 75% Attendance rule for Engineering	None	https://factly.in/fake-news-alert-aicte-not-issued-circular-scrapping-75-attendance-rule-engineering/	None	None	None	None	None	Fake News Alert: AICTE has not issued any Circular scrapping the 75% Attendance rule for Engineering	None	None
32	Fact Check: Was the Winter Session of Parliament postponed during UPA rule?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-was-the-winter-session-of-parliament-postponed-during-upa-rule/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Was the Winter Session of Parliament postponed during UPA rule?	None	None
33	Fact Check: Is India’s 30 place jump in 2018 EODB rankings the best ever?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-is-indias-30-place-jump-in-2018-eodb-rankings-the-best-ever/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Is India’s 30 place jump in 2018 EODB rankings the best ever?	None	None
34	Fact Check: Did PM Modi inaugurate an already open ‘All India Institute of Ayurveda’?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-did-pm-modi-inaugurate-an-already-open-all-india-institute-of-ayurveda/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Did PM Modi inaugurate an already open ‘All India Institute of Ayurveda’?	None	None
35	Fact Check: Has the Pew research said that 85% Indians trust the Government?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-pew-research-said-85-indians-trust-government/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has the Pew research said that 85% Indians trust the Government?	None	None
36	Fact Check: Is there a 3-minute waiting rule at Toll Plazas on National Highways?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-3-minute-waiting-rule-toll-plazas-national-highways/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Is there a 3-minute waiting rule at Toll Plazas on National Highways?	None	None
37	Fact Check: Has the UP Government slashed funds for Education?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-has-the-up-government-slashed-funds-for-education/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Has the UP Government slashed funds for Education?	None	None
38	Fact Check: India’s standing in Global Indices	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-indias-standing-global-indices/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: India’s standing in Global Indices	None	None
39	Fact Check: Rahul Gandhi’s Claims in Telangana public meeting	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-rahul-gandhis-claims-telangana-public-meeting/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Rahul Gandhi’s Claims in Telangana public meeting	None	None
40	Fact Check: Delhi Class XII results & how Manish Sisodia got it wrong	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-delhi-class-xii-results-manish-sisodia-got-wrong/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Delhi Class XII results & how Manish Sisodia got it wrong	None	None
41	Fact Check: Did Manmohan Singh undertake more foreign visits than Narendra Modi?	None	https://factly.in/fact-check-manmohan-singh-undertake-foreign-visits-narendra-modi/	None	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: Did Manmohan Singh undertake more foreign visits than Narendra Modi?	None	None
42	Fact Check: How the media misinterpreted & misreported the PM’s statements on Passports	Fact: The claim is TRUE as mentioned above.	https://factly.in/media-misinterpreted-misreported-pms-statements-passports/	Fact: The claim is TRUE as mentioned above.	None	None	None	None	Fact Check: How the media misinterpreted & misreported the PM’s statements on Passports	None	None
