claim_id  claim  label  claim_url  reason  categories  speaker  checker  tags  article_title  publish_date  claim_date
4   The UK economy is growing more quickly than any of the other G7 countries.   In 2016, the UK economy seems to have grown faster than any G7 country bar Germany, which grew at essentially the same rate.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-still-fastest-growing-g7-economy/   In 2016, the UK economy seems to have grown faster than any G7 country bar Germany, which grew at essentially the same rate.   economy   None   Full Fact team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th May 2017   None
5   The top 1% of earners in the UK are paying 28% of the tax burden.   This isn’t correct.  The highest earning 1% in the UK pay an estimated 28% of all income tax – not the total “tax burden”. This is close to a record level, but it isn’t quite the highest percentage ever.   https://fullfact.org/economy/do-top-1-earners-pay-28-tax-burden/   This isn’t correct.  The highest earning 1% in the UK pay an estimated 28% of all income tax – not the total “tax burden”. This is close to a record level, but it isn’t quite the highest percentage ever.   economy   None   Joseph Shuttleworth   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Jan 2018   None
7   An extra £1 billion will be invested on mental health spending by 2021.   NHS England says it has committed to spending this much extra on mental health services in 2020/21 from its existing budget, over and above what is spent at the moment. If this is the whole rise in mental health spending in England over the next five years, then the spending will rise more slowly than on other parts of the NHS. If it isn’t, then we’re no closer to knowing how much will be spent on mental health.   https://fullfact.org/health/unanswered-questions-extra-1-billion-mental-health/   NHS England says it has committed to spending this much extra on mental health services in 2020/21 from its existing budget, over and above what is spent at the moment. If this is the whole rise in mental health spending in England over the next five years, then the spending will rise more slowly than on other parts of the NHS. If it isn’t, then we’re no closer to knowing how much will be spent on mental health.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd Feb 2016   None
10   Tax evasion and tax avoidance costs the government £34 billion a year.   This is wrong, according to the estimates it's using. HMRC estimates that £2.7 billion was lost through tax avoidance and £4.4 billion through tax evasion in 2013/14. £34 billion is the total value of tax that goes uncollected.   https://fullfact.org/economy/tax-avoidance-evasion-uk/   This is wrong, according to the estimates it's using. HMRC estimates that £2.7 billion was lost through tax avoidance and £4.4 billion through tax evasion in 2013/14. £34 billion is the total value of tax that goes uncollected.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Oct 2016   None
13   1% of the population owns 50% of the wealth of the country   That seems likely to be an overestimate. It may be a reference to estimates for the whole world rather than just the UK.   https://fullfact.org/europe/uk-wealth-1-percent/   That seems likely to be an overestimate. It may be a reference to estimates for the whole world rather than just the UK.   europe   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Jan 2017   None
18   EU immigrants pay £1.34 in taxes for every £1 they receive in state assistance   Research has found this for recent immigrants from other EU countries, but counting those who came before 2000 reduces this figure. This is a difficult thing to measure, and other research has different findings.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/do-eu-immigrants-contribute-134-every-1-they-receive/   Research has found this for recent immigrants from other EU countries, but counting those who came before 2000 reduces this figure. This is a difficult thing to measure, and other research has different findings.   immigration   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Feb 2016   None
20   For every £1 spent on legal aid, the state saves £6.   This claim has evolved down a chain of several different pieces of research and should be treated with caution. Academics say that we need more research about the savings that spending on legal aid can bring.   https://fullfact.org/law/how-much-money-does-legal-aid-save-country/   This claim has evolved down a chain of several different pieces of research and should be treated with caution. Academics say that we need more research about the savings that spending on legal aid can bring.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Jan 2016   None
21   Stop and search is achieving a higher arrest rate.   Correct. The arrest rate in England and Wales rose from 8% in 2009/10 to 17% in 2016/17. The number of stop and searches fell from 1.3 million to 300,000 between those years.   https://fullfact.org/crime/stop-and-search-arrest-rate/   Correct. The arrest rate in England and Wales rose from 8% in 2009/10 to 17% in 2016/17. The number of stop and searches fell from 1.3 million to 300,000 between those years.   crime   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th Apr 2018   None
24   The National Living Wage will cost care homes an extra £1 billion a year by 2020.   Some of this cost could be incurred anyway without the new policy, and the figure rests on a lot of uncertainty. Other estimates even suggest higher costs.   https://fullfact.org/economy/pay-carers-will-national-living-wage-increase-spending-1-billion-year/   Some of this cost could be incurred anyway without the new policy, and the figure rests on a lot of uncertainty. Other estimates even suggest higher costs.   economy   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Aug 2015   None
33   More people are waiting more than four hours to be seen in A&E since the Conservatives took power.   The number of people waiting four hours in all types of A&E in England in 2015/16 is higher than in 2010/11. More people are going to A&E but the percentage of people seen within four hours has also fallen.   https://fullfact.org/health/a-e-waiting-times-pmqs/   The number of people waiting four hours in all types of A&E in England in 2015/16 is higher than in 2010/11. More people are going to A&E but the percentage of people seen within four hours has also fallen.   health   None   Charlotte Browning   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Apr 2017   None
35   The Conservatives broke a manifesto promise by raising national insurance rates in the 2017 budget.   The 2015 Conservative election manifesto promised not to raise national insurance rates this parliament. The government has now announced plans to raise national insurance rates for some self-employed people.   https://fullfact.org/economy/did-conservatives-break-manifesto-promise-national-insurance/   The 2015 Conservative election manifesto promised not to raise national insurance rates this parliament. The government has now announced plans to raise national insurance rates for some self-employed people.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Mar 2017   None
41   Sir John Curtice has said there is absolutely no evidence of a swing in favour of a second referendum.   Not quite right - Professor Curtice has said that there is some evidence of a swing, but that the evidence is not consistent.   https://fullfact.org/europe/has-public-opinion-swung-favour-second-eu-referendum/   Not quite right - Professor Curtice has said that there is some evidence of a swing, but that the evidence is not consistent.   europe   None   Tom Phillips   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Sep 2018   None
45   UK public spending is expected to fall to US levels by 2019.   As a proportion of GDP, UK spending is forecast to be similar to the US by 2019. The summer 2015 Budget in the UK set this in motion.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-public-spending-down-us-levels-201819/   As a proportion of GDP, UK spending is forecast to be similar to the US by 2019. The summer 2015 Budget in the UK set this in motion.   economy   None   Amelia Ash   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Aug 2015   None
49   The government hasn’t balanced its books because debt is up from £1 trillion to £1.7 trillion.   Correct. The deficit is falling and debt is still rising.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-public-debt-rising/   Correct. The deficit is falling and debt is still rising.   economy   None   Will Moy   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd Jun 2017   None
50   Overseas aid spending will increase by £1 billion over two years because of new EU rules.   The EU rules in question are about how to measure the UK's wealth, which is the basis of the government's aid target. The EU doesn't set that target - we do.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-behind-1-billion-increase-aid-spending/   The EU rules in question are about how to measure the UK's wealth, which is the basis of the government's aid target. The EU doesn't set that target - we do.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Apr 2015   None
51   There are 5,000 fewer mental health nurses since 2010.   This is correct looking just at mental health nurses and excluding those who work in learning disabilities. NHS Digital, which publishes the figures, uses a broader definition of mental health nurse that includes both groups. Looking at both of these the number of nurses has decreased by around 7,000 since 2010.   https://fullfact.org/health/are-mental-health-nurse-numbers-down/   This is correct looking just at mental health nurses and excluding those who work in learning disabilities. NHS Digital, which publishes the figures, uses a broader definition of mental health nurse that includes both groups. Looking at both of these the number of nurses has decreased by around 7,000 since 2010.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   31st Jul 2017   None
64   Taxpayers will pick up a £2 million security bill for Eugenie’s wedding.   This hasn’t been confirmed, but seems in the right ballpark based on reported costs for previous weddings.   https://fullfact.org/news/princess-and-pcs-what-will-policing-princess-eugenies-wedding-cost/   This hasn’t been confirmed, but seems in the right ballpark based on reported costs for previous weddings.   news   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Aug 2018   None
67   A million more pupils are in good or outstanding schools in England than five years ago.   Correct. This progress is partly due to Ofsted's changing inspection practice - which refined what was expected of schools and placed a greater emphasis on inspecting schools which fell below this expectation.   https://fullfact.org/education/million-more-pupils-good-or-outstanding-schools-not-just-simple-story-school-improvement/   Correct. This progress is partly due to Ofsted's changing inspection practice - which refined what was expected of schools and placed a greater emphasis on inspecting schools which fell below this expectation.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Oct 2015   None
68   7,000 prison officers have been lost from the prison service in recent years due to austerity measures.   There are 7,000 fewer prison officers now than there were in 2010 on one definition. This fall followed on from the 2010 spending review which reduced funding for the Ministry of Justice.   https://fullfact.org/crime/prison-officer-numbers-have-fallen/   There are 7,000 fewer prison officers now than there were in 2010 on one definition. This fall followed on from the 2010 spending review which reduced funding for the Ministry of Justice.   crime   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Feb 2017   None
74   3,250 people investigate benefit fraud compared to 300 who investigate tax evasion.   This isn’t comparing like-with-like and the DWP figure is out of date. The staff mentioned work on all benefit fraud and error and tax evasion and avoidance, not just the illegal activities.   https://fullfact.org/economy/do-benefit-fraud-investigators-outnumber-tax-inspectors-ten-one/   This isn’t comparing like-with-like and the DWP figure is out of date. The staff mentioned work on all benefit fraud and error and tax evasion and avoidance, not just the illegal activities.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Apr 2016   None
75   One third of private rented homes don't meet basic health and safety standards.   Close to a third of private rented properties don't meet the official Decent Homes Standard, but health and safety is only one possible reason a home can fail that. A sixth of private rental homes failed minimum health and safety standards in 2013.   https://fullfact.org/economy/state-private-rented-homes/   Close to a third of private rented properties don't meet the official Decent Homes Standard, but health and safety is only one possible reason a home can fail that. A sixth of private rental homes failed minimum health and safety standards in 2013.   economy   None   Simon Wasser, Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Feb 2016   None
77   A court ruled that more people are entitled to the PIP benefit because they were suffering from “overwhelming psychological distress”.   The Upper Tribunal’s decision was based on the interpretation and application of the language of the complicated PIP regulations, which include the phrase “overwhelming psychological distress”. It decided that - in relation to the case assessed - the individual’s “overwhelming psychological distress” made them satisfy additional parts of the criteria for assessing PIP eligibility.   https://fullfact.org/health/what-did-courts-rule-pip/   The Upper Tribunal’s decision was based on the interpretation and application of the language of the complicated PIP regulations, which include the phrase “overwhelming psychological distress”. It decided that - in relation to the case assessed - the individual’s “overwhelming psychological distress” made them satisfy additional parts of the criteria for assessing PIP eligibility.   health   None   CJ McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Mar 2017   None
81   The population has grown by a third since the start of the NHS.   Correct, comparing data from 1951 and 2016.   https://fullfact.org/health/more-people-nhs/   Correct, comparing data from 1951 and 2016.   health   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Jan 2018   None
83   There are 1.5 million British people employed in businesses owned by EU citizens in the UK.   In 2014, about 1.6 million people were employed by businesses that were EU-owned, or by businesses whose parent company was EU-owned. We don’t know how many of these employees were British.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-jobs-and-eu-owned-businesses/   In 2014, about 1.6 million people were employed by businesses that were EU-owned, or by businesses whose parent company was EU-owned. We don’t know how many of these employees were British.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Oct 2016   None
84   Price inflation is “soaring” at a two year high of 1%.   It’s correct that consumer price inflation is at a two year high. But that’s far from a “soaring” rate of inflation.   https://fullfact.org/economy/inflation-prices-soaring/   It’s correct that consumer price inflation is at a two year high. But that’s far from a “soaring” rate of inflation.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th Oct 2016   None
85   2.5 million more people went to A&E last year.   Just over one million more people went to A&E last year compared to the year before. 2.5 million is only correct comparing back to 2010.   https://fullfact.org/health/aande-england-has-never-been-busier/   Just over one million more people went to A&E last year compared to the year before. 2.5 million is only correct comparing back to 2010.   health   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Feb 2017   None
93   At the time of the Energy Bill’s second reading debate, 1% of the UK’s electricity was being generated by wind.   That's right.   https://fullfact.org/economy/how-much-our-energy-comes-wind-mps-disagree/   That's right.   economy   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   28th Jan 2016   None
97   Nearly half of the aid sent to Syria came from the US and UK compared to 1% or less for other countries such as Saudi Arabia and Japan.   That was correct of one of the UN's funds. Taking the two main funds together the UK and US made up 38% of funding, and Japan gave just under 3%.   https://fullfact.org/news/humanitarian-aid-syria-2015/   That was correct of one of the UN's funds. Taking the two main funds together the UK and US made up 38% of funding, and Japan gave just under 3%.   news   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Feb 2016   None
99   Poorer children are less likely to get into grammar schools.   Poorer children are less likely to go to grammar schools even if they are high achievers. It’s not certain if this is because poorer children are less likely to apply, or less likely to get in, or a bit of both.   https://fullfact.org/education/poorer-children-are-less-likely-go-grammar-schools/   Poorer children are less likely to go to grammar schools even if they are high achievers. It’s not certain if this is because poorer children are less likely to apply, or less likely to get in, or a bit of both.   education   None   Full Fact team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th Oct 2016   None
102   We’ve got the slowest growth in Europe.   The UK had the third-slowest year-on-year GDP growth in the EU, based on the latest figures for July-September 2017.   https://fullfact.org/economy/pound-fallen-since-brexit/   The UK had the third-slowest year-on-year GDP growth in the EU, based on the latest figures for July-September 2017.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Feb 2018   None
108   More people are getting advance payments on Universal Credit.   Correct. Advances made on the first payment of new Universal Credit claims increased from 30% of claims in May 2016 to 52% in July 2017.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-more-people-being-paid-advance-their-universal-credit/   Correct. Advances made on the first payment of new Universal Credit claims increased from 30% of claims in May 2016 to 52% in July 2017.   economy   None   Sinéad Boultwood   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th Oct 2017   None
110   In the six years from 2010 rail fares have risen 25% on average.   That's right in cash terms - consumer prices have gone up by about 14% over the same period. The 25% increase is for 'regulated' fares, which make up about half of all fares.   https://fullfact.org/economy/rail-fares-25-six-years/   That's right in cash terms - consumer prices have gone up by about 14% over the same period. The 25% increase is for 'regulated' fares, which make up about half of all fares.   economy   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Jan 2016   None
113   The Tories just refused to support 6500 jobs and £1 billion for our economy by not guaranteeing that 3 new Royal Navy ships will be built in Britain.   These numbers assume that if a British shipbuilder won the contract, they would exclusively use British labour and goods. That’s uncertain. The £1 billion estimate is unconfirmed.   https://fullfact.org/economy/did-conservatives-refuse-support-6500-british-shipbuilding-jobs/   These numbers assume that if a British shipbuilder won the contract, they would exclusively use British labour and goods. That’s uncertain. The £1 billion estimate is unconfirmed.   economy   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   25th Jul 2018   None
116   There is little evidence that falling wages are being caused by migration, aside from in construction.   Studies find that immigration affects low-waged workers the most, in low-skilled and semi-skilled jobs generally not just in construction.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/immigration-wages/   Studies find that immigration affects low-waged workers the most, in low-skilled and semi-skilled jobs generally not just in construction.   immigration   None   Will Moy   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   25th May 2018   None
125   Universal Credit will make work pay.   Overall, Universal Credit will strengthen work incentives for people claiming the benefit, the Institute for Fiscal Studies has said. But certain groups, such as single parents, will see their work incentives weakened.   https://fullfact.org/economy/universal-credit-will-it-make-work-pay/   Overall, Universal Credit will strengthen work incentives for people claiming the benefit, the Institute for Fiscal Studies has said. But certain groups, such as single parents, will see their work incentives weakened.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   3rd Feb 2016   None
126   The number of children in temporary accommodation is up 60% since 2010.   Correct for England. Across Great Britain as a whole, the increase is slightly less.   https://fullfact.org/economy/128000-children-are-homeless-britain/   Correct for England. Across Great Britain as a whole, the increase is slightly less.   economy   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Dec 2017   None
127   Germany has accepted 800,00 Syrian refugees.   Germany will end up accepting hundreds of thousands of refugees, both from Syria and the wider world, but 800,000 Syrians accepted to date is way off.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/ask-full-fact-germany-hasnt-accepted-800000-syrian-refugees/   Germany will end up accepting hundreds of thousands of refugees, both from Syria and the wider world, but 800,000 Syrians accepted to date is way off.   immigration   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Sep 2015   None
128   Many judges at the European Court of Human Rights aren't legally qualified, and are appointed politically.   None of the judges at the Court are obviously unqualified based on their CVs, although they are voted in by a political body.   https://fullfact.org/law/human-rights-court-pseudo-judges-or-super-judges/   None of the judges at the Court are obviously unqualified based on their CVs, although they are voted in by a political body.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Jul 2015   None
133   The number of people who came to live in this country last year was the same as the population of Newcastle-upon-Tyne.   Not far off, assuming the claim is referring to net migration. The best estimate is that about 335,000 more people came to live in UK than left in the year leading up to June 2016. Only 293,000 people live in Newcastle-upon-Tyne.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/immigration-unemployment-uk/   Not far off, assuming the claim is referring to net migration. The best estimate is that about 335,000 more people came to live in UK than left in the year leading up to June 2016. Only 293,000 people live in Newcastle-upon-Tyne.   immigration   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Dec 2016   None
138   The National Crime Agency says that one in 35 UK men have a sexual interest in children.   The National Crime Agency told us this estimate came from “various pieces of academic research” but it wasn’t able to point us directly to a specific piece. The estimates that we’ve seen are very uncertain and—whatever the exact figure—experts on the topic stressed to us that thoughts often don’t turn into actions.   https://fullfact.org/crime/how-many-men-have-sexual-interest-children/   The National Crime Agency told us this estimate came from “various pieces of academic research” but it wasn’t able to point us directly to a specific piece. The estimates that we’ve seen are very uncertain and—whatever the exact figure—experts on the topic stressed to us that thoughts often don’t turn into actions.   crime   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   17th Mar 2017   None
144   21.2% of newborns in 2000 had at least one parent born abroad.   About 21% did, although we haven’t been able to find a source for this exact figure yet.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/parents-born-outside-uk/   About 21% did, although we haven’t been able to find a source for this exact figure yet.   immigration   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Dec 2016   None
148   More than a quarter of all evening meals in the UK are vegan or vegetarian, research shows.   An estimated 29% of evening meals contained no meat or fish in 2017, according to market research designed to be representative of Britain. We don’t know how many evening meals were vegan, though.   https://fullfact.org/health/vegetarian-vegan-uk/   An estimated 29% of evening meals contained no meat or fish in 2017, according to market research designed to be representative of Britain. We don’t know how many evening meals were vegan, though.   health   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Feb 2018   None
154   The Conservative election manifesto gave no indication that the party would stop new onshore wind generators from accessing an existing subsidy.   The reference to ending "new public subsidy" for onshore wind is ambiguous. It doesn't, on the face of it, reference existing schemes, but has to be seen in the context of the clear aim to stop the construction of new wind farms.   https://fullfact.org/economy/conservative-manifestos-onshore-wind-pledge/   The reference to ending "new public subsidy" for onshore wind is ambiguous. It doesn't, on the face of it, reference existing schemes, but has to be seen in the context of the clear aim to stop the construction of new wind farms.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Oct 2015   None
164   30,000 EU nationals live in the UK.   This is wrong, about 3.2 million nationals of other EU countries live in the UK.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/about-32-million-eu-nationals-live-uk/   This is wrong, about 3.2 million nationals of other EU countries live in the UK.   immigration   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   27th Jan 2017   None
165   This Conservative government introduced parity of esteem for mental health services in the NHS.   The government wants to achieve equality between the physical and mental health services provided to people, but it’s not there yet. The Coalition and Conservative government both introduced commitments to parity of esteem in legislation and official documents. The idea has been talked about for decades.   https://fullfact.org/health/what-parity-esteem/   The government wants to achieve equality between the physical and mental health services provided to people, but it’s not there yet. The Coalition and Conservative government both introduced commitments to parity of esteem in legislation and official documents. The idea has been talked about for decades.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Mar 2017   None
166   Nigel Farage once flirted with the idea of there being a second EU referendum.   During interviews earlier this year Mr Farage said that he might be starting to think we should have a second referendum as he felt the proportion voting to leave would be larger than in 2016. He also said he feared we may have to have a second referendum if Parliament rejects the final deal with the EU.   https://fullfact.org/europe/deja-eu-referendum/   During interviews earlier this year Mr Farage said that he might be starting to think we should have a second referendum as he felt the proportion voting to leave would be larger than in 2016. He also said he feared we may have to have a second referendum if Parliament rejects the final deal with the EU.   europe   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Mar 2018   None
172   We pay about £350 million a week to the EU budget.   The UK pays around £250 million a week to the EU, not £350 million.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-referendum-voting-guide-vote-leave-our-eu-membership-fee/   The UK pays around £250 million a week to the EU, not £350 million.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th May 2016   None
175   There are 600 more A&E consultants, 1,500 more A&E doctors, and 2,000 more paramedics.   These are roughly correct, comparing since 2010.   https://fullfact.org/health/staffing-e/   These are roughly correct, comparing since 2010.   health   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Feb 2017   None
179   The government committed over £1 billion to reduce the impact of changes and limit them to 18 months.   Correct. The government limited the increase in the state pension age from the new 2011 timetable so that no-one would face an increase of more than 18 months. That reduced the savings it would otherwise have made by £1.1 billion. Overall, changes since 1995 mean some women will retire three to six years later planned.   https://fullfact.org/economy/increasing-state-pension-age/   Correct. The government limited the increase in the state pension age from the new 2011 timetable so that no-one would face an increase of more than 18 months. That reduced the savings it would otherwise have made by £1.1 billion. Overall, changes since 1995 mean some women will retire three to six years later planned.   economy   None   Sinéad Boultwood   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Feb 2017   None
180   If you appeal against a Work Capability Assessment you are almost certain to win.   About three-fifths of appeal cases are successful. Decisions that are challenged but don’t make it to appeal have a lower success rate.   https://fullfact.org/health/appealing-fit-for-work-decision/   About three-fifths of appeal cases are successful. Decisions that are challenged but don’t make it to appeal have a lower success rate.   health   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Nov 2016   None
184   UK growth is currently the slowest among the 10 largest EU economies.   UK growth is the slowest among all EU economies over the last quarter. Over the last year, of the ten largest EU economies the UK has grown the 8th fastest.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-economy-slow-lane/   UK growth is the slowest among all EU economies over the last quarter. Over the last year, of the ten largest EU economies the UK has grown the 8th fastest.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th Oct 2017   None
185   We spend nearly £50 billion on debt interest in the UK.   The government’s debt interest bill was £48 billion in 2016/17, although it effectively paid some of that back to itself through the Bank of England. The government actually spent about £39 billion.   https://fullfact.org/economy/does-government-spend-50-billion-debt-interest-payments/   The government’s debt interest bill was £48 billion in 2016/17, although it effectively paid some of that back to itself through the Bank of England. The government actually spent about £39 billion.   economy   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Nov 2017   None
186   More than 30,000 children aged between 10 and 15 now say that they are in gangs.   We don’t know the exact number, and it’s difficult to get an accurate measure of this. In 2013/14, a survey found 0.9% of 10-15 year olds in England and Wales said they were in a street gang, which implies around 30,000 children in England, but this should not be taken as exact.   https://fullfact.org/crime/-children-gangs/   We don’t know the exact number, and it’s difficult to get an accurate measure of this. In 2013/14, a survey found 0.9% of 10-15 year olds in England and Wales said they were in a street gang, which implies around 30,000 children in England, but this should not be taken as exact.   crime   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   28th Jun 2018   None
191   The percentage of judges that are from ethnic minorities has fallen in the past year.   This is what the official statistics appear to show, but in fact there has been a slight rise in the proportion of ethnic minority judges compared to 2015. It's now 6.5% of those whose ethnicity is recorded, up from 5.9%. The apparent fall is due to a change in methodology.   https://fullfact.org/law/diversity-judges-statistics/   This is what the official statistics appear to show, but in fact there has been a slight rise in the proportion of ethnic minority judges compared to 2015. It's now 6.5% of those whose ethnicity is recorded, up from 5.9%. The apparent fall is due to a change in methodology.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Sep 2016   None
192   The richest 1% of people in the UK own more than twenty times the wealth of the poorest 20% in the UK.   Finding out what the wealthiest own is harder than you might expect, but this is a reasonable claim that’s based on a well-regarded set of estimates. It’s important not to confused inequalities of wealth with inequalities of income, which are much lower.   https://fullfact.org/economy/wealth-uk-richest-1-and-poorest-20/   Finding out what the wealthiest own is harder than you might expect, but this is a reasonable claim that’s based on a well-regarded set of estimates. It’s important not to confused inequalities of wealth with inequalities of income, which are much lower.   economy   None   Will Moy and Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Sep 2016   None
193   The 2015 Conservative manifesto committed the party to staying in the EU single market.   The manifesto does say, “We are clear about what we want from Europe. We say: yes to the Single Market.” The manifesto also promises a referendum on EU membership, although staying in the EU and leaving its single market can be two different things.   https://fullfact.org/europe/conservative-manifesto-single-market/   The manifesto does say, “We are clear about what we want from Europe. We say: yes to the Single Market.” The manifesto also promises a referendum on EU membership, although staying in the EU and leaving its single market can be two different things.   europe   None   Charlotte Browning   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   31st Mar 2017   None
194   72% of the goods that leave Belfast port come to Great Britain.   This claim hasn’t been substantiated and we’ve not seen wider evidence for this. In 2016, 85% of goods which left Belfast port went to the UK, measured by their weight. 56% of all Northern Irish goods sold beyond its borders went to Great Britain, based on the value of those goods.   https://fullfact.org/europe/trade-across-irish-sea/   This claim hasn’t been substantiated and we’ve not seen wider evidence for this. In 2016, 85% of goods which left Belfast port went to the UK, measured by their weight. 56% of all Northern Irish goods sold beyond its borders went to Great Britain, based on the value of those goods.   europe   None   Joel Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st May 2018   None
195   Since 2010, we’ve created more jobs than France, Spain, Ireland, The Netherlands, Austria, Sweden and Norway combined.   That was correct for the first quarter of 2018, but based on the available data for the second quarter it’s not likely to be correct anymore. It refers to overall changes in employment, including people who move into and out of work.   https://fullfact.org/economy/doing-sterling-job-how-uks-employment-record-compares-eu/   That was correct for the first quarter of 2018, but based on the available data for the second quarter it’s not likely to be correct anymore. It refers to overall changes in employment, including people who move into and out of work.   economy   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Oct 2018   None
196   There is grotesque inequality in the UK.   It's up to you what you count as grotesque, and there are a lot of different ways to measure and illustrate inequality.   https://fullfact.org/economy/whats-happening-inequality/   It's up to you what you count as grotesque, and there are a lot of different ways to measure and illustrate inequality.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   28th Sep 2016   None
197   The UK will spend £36 million on efforts to close the Calais “Jungle” camp   The UK has committed £36 million and some of this money will be used to close the camp, but it’s also being spent on border security and keeping child migrants safe.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/36-million-isnt-just-close-calais-jungle/   The UK has committed £36 million and some of this money will be used to close the camp, but it’s also being spent on border security and keeping child migrants safe.   immigration   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   25th Oct 2016   None
200   The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that processed meat is as big a cancer threat as cigarettes.   Inaccurate. The WHO has said processed meat is proven to cause cancer, just as cigarettes are. But the cancer risk attached to eating processed meat is far smaller than smoking.   https://fullfact.org/health/processed-meat-isnt-big-cause-cancer-smoking/   Inaccurate. The WHO has said processed meat is proven to cause cancer, just as cigarettes are. But the cancer risk attached to eating processed meat is far smaller than smoking.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   27th Oct 2015   None
201   The UK received 24,000 asylum applications last year, far fewer than other EU countries.   It's 31,000 including family members, the sixth highest number in the EU. Adjusting for population size, the UK is 18th out of 30 European countries.   https://fullfact.org/europe/un-wrong-asylum-seekers-britain/   It's 31,000 including family members, the sixth highest number in the EU. Adjusting for population size, the UK is 18th out of 30 European countries.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   3rd Aug 2015   None
202   Refugees are predominantly male.   In the EU, 57% of new asylum applicants in the first six months of 2015 were men, 26% were children of both genders, and 18% were women.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/ask-full-fact-are-asylum-seekers-mostly-men/   In the EU, 57% of new asylum applicants in the first six months of 2015 were men, 26% were children of both genders, and 18% were women.   immigration   None   Amy Sippitt, Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   17th Sep 2015   None
205   The UK is the second largest economy in the EU.   The UK is either the second or third largest economy in the EU, depending on the measure used.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-largest-economies-eu/   The UK is either the second or third largest economy in the EU, depending on the measure used.   economy   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   16th Mar 2018   None
208   We have a £100 billion trade deficit with Europe.   The UK was sold just under £70 billion more in goods and services by the rest of the EU than it sold to them in 2017.   https://fullfact.org/europe/what-trade-deficit-and-do-we-have-one-eu/   The UK was sold just under £70 billion more in goods and services by the rest of the EU than it sold to them in 2017.   europe   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Jun 2018   None
213   The wealthiest are paying more and more tax.   There’s no one-line answer: it depends on who you define as the wealthiest.   https://fullfact.org/economy/what-do-wealthiest-pay-tax/   There’s no one-line answer: it depends on who you define as the wealthiest.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th Jan 2017   None
214   Theresa May blocked NHS funding for a brand of glucose sensor which is a lifeline to diabetics.   The sensor has been available for funding on the NHS across the UK since November 2017, though whether it is available in a particular local area is a lottery. Some areas have chosen to make it available while others have not.   https://fullfact.org/health/nhs-funding-blocked-blood-glucose-monitors/   The sensor has been available for funding on the NHS across the UK since November 2017, though whether it is available in a particular local area is a lottery. Some areas have chosen to make it available while others have not.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Aug 2018   None
215   There is a two-year time limit for Brexit negotiations under Article 50, which the UK has no power to extend.   Correct. The UK will be out of the EU two years after triggering Article 50, unless it reaches an agreement within that time or agrees with all other EU members to extend the negotiation period.   https://fullfact.org/europe/article-50-two-year-limit/   Correct. The UK will be out of the EU two years after triggering Article 50, unless it reaches an agreement within that time or agrees with all other EU members to extend the negotiation period.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Dec 2016   None
217   Tax credits originally cost £1.1bn. Now they've reached £30bn.   This figure only covers half a year, when the first tax credits were introduced in 1999. They cost over £4bn in their first full year compared to £28bn today.   https://fullfact.org/economy/tax-credits-how-much-has-spending-increased-16-years/   This figure only covers half a year, when the first tax credits were introduced in 1999. They cost over £4bn in their first full year compared to £28bn today.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Jul 2015   None
227   Firms bidding for government contracts are being asked if they back Brexit.   There are two examples so far of companies tendering for digital work with the Department for International Trade being asked, as part of the selection criteria for the job, to show that they are “committed to the best possible outcome for the United Kingdom following its departure from the European Union”. The government says that’s not the same as firms being asked if they “back Brexit”.   https://fullfact.org/europe/do-companies-bidding-government-contracts-have-back-brexit/   There are two examples so far of companies tendering for digital work with the Department for International Trade being asked, as part of the selection criteria for the job, to show that they are “committed to the best possible outcome for the United Kingdom following its departure from the European Union”. The government says that’s not the same as firms being asked if they “back Brexit”.   europe   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Mar 2017   None
228   EU law overrules UK law. This stops the British public from being able to vote out the politicians who make our laws. EU judges have already overruled British laws on issues like counter-terrorism powers, immigration, VAT, and prisoner voting.   EU law does override UK law. The EU court has made rulings to that effect on some, but not all, of these issues.   https://fullfact.org/europe/vote-leave-facts-leaflet-eu-law/   EU law does override UK law. The EU court has made rulings to that effect on some, but not all, of these issues.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Jun 2016   None
230   The most vulnerable people claiming Employment and Support Allowance will continue to get extra money despite benefit cuts.   Those in the ESA support group will be getting more than other claimants, but the real value of the benefit will fall over time.   https://fullfact.org/economy/esa-extra-money-some/   Those in the ESA support group will be getting more than other claimants, but the real value of the benefit will fall over time.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   28th Jul 2015   None
232   The Tories have scrapped Labour's policy to cap class sizes at 30 pupils.   The cap hasn't been scrapped, but there has been a three-fold increase in oversized classes under the Coalition.   https://fullfact.org/education/factcheck-has-cap-infant-class-sizes-been-scrapped/   The cap hasn't been scrapped, but there has been a three-fold increase in oversized classes under the Coalition.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Feb 2015   None
236   Computers are getting better than humans at reading.   They’re not. “Even elementary school reading comprehensions are harder” than the test computers passed, says the test’s creator. It’s an academic milestone not a practical one.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-computers-getting-better-humans-reading/   They’re not. “Even elementary school reading comprehensions are harder” than the test computers passed, says the test’s creator. It’s an academic milestone not a practical one.   economy   None   Lev Konstantinovskiy   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th Jan 2018   None
240   The IMF says that the UK will be the fastest-growing advanced economy in the world in 2016.   Not correct. The IMF forecasts GDP growth of 1.8% for the UK in 2016, the 18th highest among the 39 countries it calls ‘advanced economies’.   https://fullfact.org/economy/economic-outlook-imf-or-ifs/   Not correct. The IMF forecasts GDP growth of 1.8% for the UK in 2016, the 18th highest among the 39 countries it calls ‘advanced economies’.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th Nov 2016   None
242   Abortion is still a crime unless it’s approved by doctors.   Correct, although prosecutions are very rare in practice.   https://fullfact.org/law/changing-law-abortion-mps-vote-decriminalisation/   Correct, although prosecutions are very rare in practice.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Mar 2017   None
243   Life expectancy has stopped increasing in some areas and fallen in others.   It’s correct that the life expectancy figures in some areas of the UK have stopped increasing. Figures have slightly decreased in other areas, but it's premature to say that life expectancy is falling in reality due to the margin of error.   https://fullfact.org/economy/pension-changes-mean-thirty-seven-million/   It’s correct that the life expectancy figures in some areas of the UK have stopped increasing. Figures have slightly decreased in other areas, but it's premature to say that life expectancy is falling in reality due to the margin of error.   economy   None   Will Hulme   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th Aug 2017   None
246   The BBC lost £150 million a year because the licence fee didn’t cover iPlayer until 1 September 2016.   The BBC has said that it will make £150 million less in 2016/17 from licence fees than it had expected in 2011, which it attributes to fewer people owning TVs and more people watching programmes online. The BBC doesn’t publish these forecasts so nobody can assess the reliability of this claim.   https://fullfact.org/news/150-million-bbc-licence-fee-loophole/   The BBC has said that it will make £150 million less in 2016/17 from licence fees than it had expected in 2011, which it attributes to fewer people owning TVs and more people watching programmes online. The BBC doesn’t publish these forecasts so nobody can assess the reliability of this claim.   news   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Sep 2016   None
247   You don’t have to be a member of the EU to trade with it. Switzerland is not in the EU, and it exports more per person to the EU than we do.   That’s correct. Switzerland has some access to the EU’s single market. It pays financially for this and takes on certain EU laws.   https://fullfact.org/europe/vote-leave-facts-leaflet-exports/   That’s correct. Switzerland has some access to the EU’s single market. It pays financially for this and takes on certain EU laws.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd May 2016   None
248   The pound is now undervalued, based on the IMF’s recommendations in February and June 2016.   This is uncertain. When IMF said the pound was overvalued, they based their recommendations on the assumption that the UK would vote to remain in the EU. It's open to debate what value the pound should be at now that we've voted to leave.   https://fullfact.org/economy/exchange-rates-and-imf/   This is uncertain. When IMF said the pound was overvalued, they based their recommendations on the assumption that the UK would vote to remain in the EU. It's open to debate what value the pound should be at now that we've voted to leave.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   17th Oct 2016   None
252   The UK has nine out of the 10 poorest regions in northern Europe.   Incorrect, this is out of date. In 2016, the UK had six of the 10 regions with the lowest GDP per person, from a group of nearby countries. This isn’t a good measure of how rich or poor people in those regions are.   https://fullfact.org/economy/does-uk-have-poorest-regions-northern-europe/   Incorrect, this is out of date. In 2016, the UK had six of the 10 regions with the lowest GDP per person, from a group of nearby countries. This isn’t a good measure of how rich or poor people in those regions are.   economy   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Jun 2018   None
254   The number of children "up for adoption" has fallen.   Correct. The number of children granted a placement order - one of the first steps before a child can be adopted - has fallen by 24% in the last year in England. The number of completed adoptions has continued to rise, but at a slower rate.   https://fullfact.org/education/fall-number-children-being-placed-adoption/   Correct. The number of children granted a placement order - one of the first steps before a child can be adopted - has fallen by 24% in the last year in England. The number of completed adoptions has continued to rise, but at a slower rate.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Oct 2015   None
261   BME students make up 17.9% of all British Oxford undergraduates. That’s pretty close to the percentage of BME people among 17-24-year-olds in England and Wales – 18.3%.   Correct, for undergraduate students from the UK who took up their place in 2017, and looking at those in the 2011 census who would be between 17 and 24 today.   https://fullfact.org/education/bme-students-oxford/   Correct, for undergraduate students from the UK who took up their place in 2017, and looking at those in the 2011 census who would be between 17 and 24 today.   education   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th May 2018   None
267   800,000 people pay a higher tax rate than someone who earns £1m.   Some people do pay higher tax rates than those earning £1m, but only when their income rises between certain amounts. The estimate of 800,000 people affected only applies to relatively high earners, but marginal tax rates affect low earners too.   https://fullfact.org/economy/do-you-pay-higher-tax-rate-millionaire/   Some people do pay higher tax rates than those earning £1m, but only when their income rises between certain amounts. The estimate of 800,000 people affected only applies to relatively high earners, but marginal tax rates affect low earners too.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   25th Oct 2017   None
268   The UK spends 0.7% of its GDP on aid, which is more than any other G7 country.   Correct for the UK in 2017, though it’s based on a slightly different figure that includes overseas income. Germany spends just under 0.7%, but slightly less than the UK.   https://fullfact.org/economy/how-much-money-does-uk-spend-aid-compared-rest-g7/   Correct for the UK in 2017, though it’s based on a slightly different figure that includes overseas income. Germany spends just under 0.7%, but slightly less than the UK.   economy   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Jul 2018   None
269   Childhood diabetes in England and Wales is up 40% in four years.   This is in the right ball park. Data from both the NHS and the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health show this scale of increase across similar time periods.   https://fullfact.org/health/childhood-type-2-diabetes-40/   This is in the right ball park. Data from both the NHS and the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health show this scale of increase across similar time periods.   health   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Sep 2018   None
272   NHS staff will get a pay rise of between 6.5% and 29%.   Pay will rise for some staff by between 4.5% and 29% over the next three years. This includes the increases in salaries staff will get by progressing through their pay band over time, and pay rises would still occur without a new deal. It doesn’t cover doctors, dentists, or very senior managers.   https://fullfact.org/health/nhs-pay-whats-deal/   Pay will rise for some staff by between 4.5% and 29% over the next three years. This includes the increases in salaries staff will get by progressing through their pay band over time, and pay rises would still occur without a new deal. It doesn’t cover doctors, dentists, or very senior managers.   health   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   3rd Apr 2018   None
287   Following the economic crash private sector wages were hit more quickly, harder and for longer than the public sector.   That’s correct. Private sector wages dropped much more rapidly than public sector wages during the recession. They then began recovering as public sector wages slowed. In recent years the gap between the two has narrowed again.   https://fullfact.org/economy/private-sector-hit-hardest-recession/   That’s correct. Private sector wages dropped much more rapidly than public sector wages during the recession. They then began recovering as public sector wages slowed. In recent years the gap between the two has narrowed again.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th Sep 2017   None
288   Currently, there are at least two or three women per week who are killed by their ex-partners or current partners.   Official statistics, and separate figures from Women’s Aid, show around 80 women were killed by their partner or ex-partner in the latest year they cover.   https://fullfact.org/crime/women-killed-by-men/   Official statistics, and separate figures from Women’s Aid, show around 80 women were killed by their partner or ex-partner in the latest year they cover.   crime   None   Hannah Phaup and Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Feb 2018   None
292   The UK has only granted asylum to 187 Syrian refugees through the Vulnerable Person Relocation scheme.   This is correct, but not all Syrian refugees arrive in the UK through the scheme.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/how-many-syrian-refugees-are-there-uk/   This is correct, but not all Syrian refugees arrive in the UK through the scheme.   immigration   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Jun 2015   None
308   You can’t be a member of the European single market without being a member of the EU.   It’s technically possible for a non-EU member to be in the single market but it requires accepting a lot of rules set by the EU.   https://fullfact.org/europe/can-you-be-single-market-without-being-eu-member/   It’s technically possible for a non-EU member to be in the single market but it requires accepting a lot of rules set by the EU.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Jul 2017   None
309   8% of stop and searches are knife crime related   We can’t say for certain. The claim refers to London, where in the first three months of 2018, 9% of stop and searches that led to a “positive outcome”, were for “weapons, points and blades”. This category includes things like acid and screwdrivers as well as knives. We don’t have the same figure for England and Wales.   https://fullfact.org/crime/how-many-stop-and-searches-are-knife-crime-related/   We can’t say for certain. The claim refers to London, where in the first three months of 2018, 9% of stop and searches that led to a “positive outcome”, were for “weapons, points and blades”. This category includes things like acid and screwdrivers as well as knives. We don’t have the same figure for England and Wales.   crime   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th Apr 2018   None
310   Theresa May knew about the Windrush issue in 2014  - there was a report in 2014 which reported on these stories.   The report included stories of individuals of the Windrush generation facing difficulties proving their immigration status. We don’t know whether Theresa May saw the report first-hand, though the Home Office was made aware of the findings.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/what-was-known-about-windrush-2014/   The report included stories of individuals of the Windrush generation facing difficulties proving their immigration status. We don’t know whether Theresa May saw the report first-hand, though the Home Office was made aware of the findings.   immigration   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   27th Apr 2018   None
312   Independent inspectors say that driver-only trains are safe.   That’s the conclusion of the Rail Safety and Standards Board, and the Office of Rail and Road, who both say that such systems are safe provided that appropriate procedures are in place. Trade unions disagree, and deny that either organisation is actually independent.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-driver-only-trains-safe/   That’s the conclusion of the Rail Safety and Standards Board, and the Office of Rail and Road, who both say that such systems are safe provided that appropriate procedures are in place. Trade unions disagree, and deny that either organisation is actually independent.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Jan 2017   None
323   Based on ONS data, immigration has put English house prices up by 20% over the last 25 years.   It’s impossible to say for definite. Government analysis suggests immigration has pushed English house prices up by 20% but says it’s not meant to be a complete answer, and should be used with caution. There is no consensus across other research.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/have-house-prices-risen-because-immigrants/   It’s impossible to say for definite. Government analysis suggests immigration has pushed English house prices up by 20% but says it’s not meant to be a complete answer, and should be used with caution. There is no consensus across other research.   immigration   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Apr 2018   None
324   Trussell Trust food bank use has increased by 52% in a year in areas where Universal Credit has been rolled out.   Correct according to the Trust’s own research. It’s difficult to measure the extent that one is causing the other. There’s wider evidence that people have had problems during the rollout of Universal Credit and that some have been going to food banks as a result.   https://fullfact.org/economy/universal-credit-driving-people-food-banks/   Correct according to the Trust’s own research. It’s difficult to measure the extent that one is causing the other. There’s wider evidence that people have had problems during the rollout of Universal Credit and that some have been going to food banks as a result.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Jul 2018   None
327   New figures show the serious crime rate in England and Wales is rising.   New figures suggest recorded crimes are getting more severe, but they can’t prove that crime is rising.   https://fullfact.org/crime/why-homicide-now-2700-times-more-serious-cannabis/   New figures suggest recorded crimes are getting more severe, but they can’t prove that crime is rising.   crime   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Dec 2016   None
328   Increasing numbers of people are being referred to the Channel "deradicalisation" scheme, including a large proportion under 18.   Broadly correct.   https://fullfact.org/news/deradicalisation-referrals-young-and-increasing/   Broadly correct.   news   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Oct 2015   None
331   DWP employs 4,045 to tackle benefit fraud.   It employs around 4,000 full-time equivalent staff to deal with benefit fraud, as of October 2017. Of these, 1,900 are directly involved in investigations.  An estimated £2 billion in benefits were fraudulently claimed in 2017/18, according to the government.   https://fullfact.org/economy/benefit-fraud-tax-inspectors-numbers/   It employs around 4,000 full-time equivalent staff to deal with benefit fraud, as of October 2017. Of these, 1,900 are directly involved in investigations.  An estimated £2 billion in benefits were fraudulently claimed in 2017/18, according to the government.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Jul 2018   None
332   Net migration is the highest it has ever been.   This is correct. It hasn’t changed much since last year.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/conservatives-migration-record/   This is correct. It hasn’t changed much since last year.   immigration   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th Sep 2016   None
339   One in six A&E units in England are set to be closed or downgraded.   These figures are mostly speculative at present. Research has shown this many could be closed or downgraded based on their current plans. At the moment we only know for definite that about a quarter of these will be closed or downgraded.   https://fullfact.org/health/how-many-es-are-going-close/   These figures are mostly speculative at present. Research has shown this many could be closed or downgraded based on their current plans. At the moment we only know for definite that about a quarter of these will be closed or downgraded.   health   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Feb 2017   None
343   Scotland doesn’t have the power to recognise countries.   Correct, foreign affairs are a reserved matter.   https://fullfact.org/news/can-scotland-recognise-catalonia-independent-state/   Correct, foreign affairs are a reserved matter.   news   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   3rd Nov 2017   None
352   For every £1 we put into the EU, we get back almost £10 in lower prices, more jobs and more investment.   To compare the single membership fee that we pay into the EU to an estimate for many elements of the financial benefits that we might get from the EU is comparing apples to a basket of vegetables. The estimate for our financial benefit uses a precise figure for a very uncertain impact.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-referendum-voting-guide-stronger-economy/   To compare the single membership fee that we pay into the EU to an estimate for many elements of the financial benefits that we might get from the EU is comparing apples to a basket of vegetables. The estimate for our financial benefit uses a precise figure for a very uncertain impact.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th May 2016   None
357   The government has taken millions of people out of paying income tax.   Increases in the personal allowance since 2010 mean four million additional people now below the threshold don’t pay income tax.   https://fullfact.org/economy/income-tax-cuts-basic-rate-payers/   Increases in the personal allowance since 2010 mean four million additional people now below the threshold don’t pay income tax.   economy   None   Will Hulme   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Jul 2017   None
373   Primary school children are being used to carry drugs.   Reports from police in England and Wales to the National Crime Agency suggest in 42% of forces children as young as 12 are being used, but we can’t confirm yet if there are younger children involved as well.   https://fullfact.org/crime/are-children-being-used-carry-drugs/   Reports from police in England and Wales to the National Crime Agency suggest in 42% of forces children as young as 12 are being used, but we can’t confirm yet if there are younger children involved as well.   crime   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th Apr 2018   None
386   If women in the UK reached their full economic potential it would be worth £23 billion.   This figure is from 2006. Some of the gains may have increased with the size of the economy, and higher prices mean that the cash figures would be larger. Some of the gains may already  have been achieved.   https://fullfact.org/economy/pay-gap-record-employment-and-extra-23-billion-gdp-women-and-workplace/   This figure is from 2006. Some of the gains may have increased with the size of the economy, and higher prices mean that the cash figures would be larger. Some of the gains may already  have been achieved.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Sep 2015   None
389   The government has been "peddling misinformation" by claiming that business rates will fall in the majority of English council areas next year.   The government's figures aren't the only way to look at the impact of the revaluation, but it’s not necessarily been "peddling misinformation". Its estimates ignore regular rate rises that match inflation, and assume that some businesses will successfully appeal against the revaluation of their property.  If you factor in inflation and look at the picture before appeals, then most English council areas will see average rates rise from next year.   https://fullfact.org/economy/business-rates-how-many-council-areas-will-face-rate-rises/   The government's figures aren't the only way to look at the impact of the revaluation, but it’s not necessarily been "peddling misinformation". Its estimates ignore regular rate rises that match inflation, and assume that some businesses will successfully appeal against the revaluation of their property.  If you factor in inflation and look at the picture before appeals, then most English council areas will see average rates rise from next year.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Feb 2017   None
390   About 3-4% of reported rapes are based on false allegations.   There’s no way to know the true figure, and it depends which types of case you include in your definition. Evidence from England and Wales suggests that 3-4% is a reasonable estimate for the number based on malicious complaints.   https://fullfact.org/crime/allegations-rape/   There’s no way to know the true figure, and it depends which types of case you include in your definition. Evidence from England and Wales suggests that 3-4% is a reasonable estimate for the number based on malicious complaints.   crime   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Feb 2018   None
392   Leeds City Council have not signed a contract with Carillion.   Carillion was signed off as Leeds City Council's preferred bidder for a contract on 20 December 2017, but they did not sign the actual contract.   https://fullfact.org/economy/carillion-leeds-city-council/   Carillion was signed off as Leeds City Council's preferred bidder for a contract on 20 December 2017, but they did not sign the actual contract.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th Jan 2018   None
393   Because of inflation, pay rises for public sector workers are actually pay cuts.   This is effectively correct for some workers (in the police force and some doctors, dentists and teachers) and incorrect for others like those in the armed forces, prison officers, and other teachers, doctors and dentists.   https://fullfact.org/economy/governments-pay-rise-public-sector-workers-real-terms-pay-cut/   This is effectively correct for some workers (in the police force and some doctors, dentists and teachers) and incorrect for others like those in the armed forces, prison officers, and other teachers, doctors and dentists.   economy   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Aug 2018   None
404   The overall teacher vacancy rate is 0.3% and has remained under 1% for the past 15 years.   That's correct, but the rate has been rising, albeit from a very low level. The data is thought not to fully reflect difficulties in teacher recruitment.   https://fullfact.org/education/theres-only-so-much-existing-data-can-tell-us-about-teacher-vacancies/   That's correct, but the rate has been rising, albeit from a very low level. The data is thought not to fully reflect difficulties in teacher recruitment.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Apr 2016   None
405   HS2 will only take a few minutes off the current journey time.   Current government figures suggest that anything from 13 to 102 minutes could be taken off journey times from the north to London and Birmingham. This is comparing the current fastest times to the fastest times once HS2 is fully running in 2033.   https://fullfact.org/economy/hs2-it-faster/   Current government figures suggest that anything from 13 to 102 minutes could be taken off journey times from the north to London and Birmingham. This is comparing the current fastest times to the fastest times once HS2 is fully running in 2033.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Dec 2016   None
406   24,300 people died from preventable causes over winter last year.   24,300 more people died during the winter in 2015/16 than the average over the months before and after. These deaths are known as excess winter deaths and are largely attributed to respiratory diseases, circulatory conditions or dementia.   https://fullfact.org/health/how-many-excess-deaths-are-there-winter/   24,300 more people died during the winter in 2015/16 than the average over the months before and after. These deaths are known as excess winter deaths and are largely attributed to respiratory diseases, circulatory conditions or dementia.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Dec 2016   None
408   There’s been a reduction in the quantity of business rates across the board in total.   That’s correct. In the past few years a combination of increased reliefs, threshold changes and caps on business rate increases have reduced the amount businesses are paying overall.   https://fullfact.org/economy/business-rates-up-or-down/   That’s correct. In the past few years a combination of increased reliefs, threshold changes and caps on business rate increases have reduced the amount businesses are paying overall.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Feb 2017   None
409   The government has “sneaked through” an amendment to legislation governing Personal Independence Payments.   The government didn’t formally consult the Social Security Advisory Committee, which it’s normally supposed to refer to on changes to social security regulations. But the government can do this if it’s a matter of urgency, which it claims was the case here.   https://fullfact.org/economy/amendments-pip-legislation/   The government didn’t formally consult the Social Security Advisory Committee, which it’s normally supposed to refer to on changes to social security regulations. But the government can do this if it’s a matter of urgency, which it claims was the case here.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Mar 2017   None
410   40,000 primary age children were taught in classes of 36 or more in England in 2016.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/education/primary-class-sizes-england-and-wales/   Correct.   education   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th May 2017   None
411   Half of NHS staff will see an average pay increase of 4%.   Correct for 2016/17 according to the NHS Pay Review Body, although we haven’t seen the figures in full. Pay levels have been frozen at 1%, but individuals will be entitled to more money as they move up pay bands.   https://fullfact.org/health/are-nhs-workers-getting-4-pay-rise/   Correct for 2016/17 according to the NHS Pay Review Body, although we haven’t seen the figures in full. Pay levels have been frozen at 1%, but individuals will be entitled to more money as they move up pay bands.   health   None   Sinéad Boultwood and Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Apr 2017   None
412   Obesity costs the economy £27 billion a year.   This is the best estimate we’ve got of the total cost of obesity and being overweight to the NHS and the economy. But it’s based on analysis that’s over a decade old and there’s a lot of uncertainty to the numbers.   https://fullfact.org/health/what-does-obesity-cost-economy/   This is the best estimate we’ve got of the total cost of obesity and being overweight to the NHS and the economy. But it’s based on analysis that’s over a decade old and there’s a lot of uncertainty to the numbers.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Dec 2016   None
414   Crime is starting to rise.   Crime is falling in England and Wales according to the Crime Survey. Police are recording more violent and sexual offences but these may not reflect genuine rises in the crimes.   https://fullfact.org/crime/crime-now-starting-rise/   Crime is falling in England and Wales according to the Crime Survey. Police are recording more violent and sexual offences but these may not reflect genuine rises in the crimes.   crime   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Oct 2015   None
415   The government has put 12 billion more into the NHS than in 2010 under Labour. The government has also promised another 6 billion for the NHS.   Spending on NHS England increased by £12.7 billion between 2009/10 and 2017/18, taking inflation into account. The government has said it will spend an additional £6.3 billion up to 2022/23, though that’s in cash terms.   https://fullfact.org/health/how-much-money-does-nhs-need/   Spending on NHS England increased by £12.7 billion between 2009/10 and 2017/18, taking inflation into account. The government has said it will spend an additional £6.3 billion up to 2022/23, though that’s in cash terms.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Jan 2018   None
416   One in eight refugees who claimed to be children arriving in the UK were in fact adults.   This is correct for unaccompanied child refugees, but is an overestimate of the proportion of all child refugees found to be adults.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/how-many-child-asylum-seekers-are-found-be-adults/   This is correct for unaccompanied child refugees, but is an overestimate of the proportion of all child refugees found to be adults.   immigration   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Apr 2018   None
421   The proposal to introduce a points-based system would wreck the economy.   Setting up a points-based system would likely involve leaving the single market, and most economists say that would have a negative impact on the economy.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/what-would-australian-style-points-system-mean-uk-immigration/   Setting up a points-based system would likely involve leaving the single market, and most economists say that would have a negative impact on the economy.   immigration   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Jul 2016   None
422   Most of the refugees in the EU have come from Syria.   That’s correct in terms of people granted refugee status, although Syrians aren’t the majority of migrants crossing the Mediterranean or applying for asylum.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/more-refugees-eu-are-syrian-any-other-nationality/   That’s correct in terms of people granted refugee status, although Syrians aren’t the majority of migrants crossing the Mediterranean or applying for asylum.   immigration   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Oct 2016   None
424   The government's impact assessment showed that we would be £100 million worse off because of the early closure of the Renewables Obligation.   The government's best estimate is that the net present value of the early closure is about £160 million, a positive figure. The £100 million worse off estimate comes from making different assumptions about how the UK would generate electricity.   https://fullfact.org/economy/would-early-closure-renewables-obligation-onshore-wind-cost-100-million/   The government's best estimate is that the net present value of the early closure is about £160 million, a positive figure. The £100 million worse off estimate comes from making different assumptions about how the UK would generate electricity.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Dec 2015   None
428   The government broke a pledge to open GP surgeries from 8am to 8pm, seven days a week.   While the pledge appeared in the Conservative 2010 manifesto, it wasn't in the coalition agreement.   https://fullfact.org/health/gp-opening-hoursfive-years-pledges/   While the pledge appeared in the Conservative 2010 manifesto, it wasn't in the coalition agreement.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Jun 2015   None
431   The Royal College of Midwives estimates that there is a shortage of 3,500 midwives in England.   It does. The RCM calculates this based on the number of births, the number of midwives, and a widely recognised formula for how many births each midwives can handle per year.   https://fullfact.org/health/shortage-midwives/   It does. The RCM calculates this based on the number of births, the number of midwives, and a widely recognised formula for how many births each midwives can handle per year.   health   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Feb 2017   None
432   Nine out of 10 NHS trusts are unsafe.   This is referring to BBC analysis of published figures finding 137 of 152 NHS trusts had bed occupancy above the recommended 85% between 1 December 2016 and 22 January 2017.   https://fullfact.org/health/hospitals-safety-versus-quality/   This is referring to BBC analysis of published figures finding 137 of 152 NHS trusts had bed occupancy above the recommended 85% between 1 December 2016 and 22 January 2017.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Feb 2017   None
433   The Conservatives haven’t put a figure on their proposed cap on adult social care costs.   The government hasn’t said what the proposed cap on adult social care costs in England might look like. It will be included in a consultation after the election.   https://fullfact.org/health/will-there-be-cap-social-care-costs/   The government hasn’t said what the proposed cap on adult social care costs in England might look like. It will be included in a consultation after the election.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th May 2017   None
442   Less than half of the migrants entering Europe are from Syria.   This is correct, according to the United Nations. 48% of migrants and asylum seekers arriving in Europe by sea since January 2015 have been Syrian.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/just-under-half-migrants-and-asylum-seekers-whove-crossed-europe-are-syrian/   This is correct, according to the United Nations. 48% of migrants and asylum seekers arriving in Europe by sea since January 2015 have been Syrian.   immigration   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Feb 2016   None
443   The UK no longer has an NHS according to the WHO’s definition.   Incorrect. There has been privatisation of services according to the WHO’s definition, because more NHS care is run by private sector companies. But the WHO didn’t say this means there’s no longer an NHS.   https://fullfact.org/health/ask-full-fact-does-world-health-organisation-think-uk-no-longer-has-nhs/   Incorrect. There has been privatisation of services according to the WHO’s definition, because more NHS care is run by private sector companies. But the WHO didn’t say this means there’s no longer an NHS.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Mar 2016   None
444   Lebanon, a country the size of Devon and Cornwall, shelters 1.5 million refugees compared to 150,000 in the UK.   Lebanon is the size of those counties combined, and the figures are in the right ballpark, although Lebanon’s refugee population is unusual in that many have been “refugees” for decades or from birth, which isn’t possible in the UK.   https://fullfact.org/news/refugees-lebanon-and-uk/   Lebanon is the size of those counties combined, and the figures are in the right ballpark, although Lebanon’s refugee population is unusual in that many have been “refugees” for decades or from birth, which isn’t possible in the UK.   news   None   Gabriel Pogrund   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   25th Jul 2016   None
445   The UK is the only EU country with no time limit on immigration detention.   This is correct, although the courts have said that the government can’t hold people for ‘unreasonable’ periods of time.   https://fullfact.org/law/limits-immigration-detention/   This is correct, although the courts have said that the government can’t hold people for ‘unreasonable’ periods of time.   law   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Nov 2016   None
447   50% of delayed discharges accounted for by social care are in 24 local authorities.   Around 24 councils accounted for roughly half of delayed discharges from hospital in November 2016, but the majority of these delays were due to the NHS, not social care. Looking just at social care 20 councils accounted for 50% of the delayed discharges. These councils also tend to have more people, and the disparity is lower when you take population size into account.   https://fullfact.org/health/social-care-and-hospital-delays/   Around 24 councils accounted for roughly half of delayed discharges from hospital in November 2016, but the majority of these delays were due to the NHS, not social care. Looking just at social care 20 councils accounted for 50% of the delayed discharges. These councils also tend to have more people, and the disparity is lower when you take population size into account.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th Feb 2017   None
448   There are 1,012 rapists and 343 killers on the run.   These are not convicted rapists or killers. This is the number of records on the Police National Computer relating to people wanted in relation to these crimes in England and Wales, as of August last year. Not all wanted suspects will be on the database and some who are there could be counted twice.   https://fullfact.org/crime/how-many-suspects-are-wanted-police/   These are not convicted rapists or killers. This is the number of records on the Police National Computer relating to people wanted in relation to these crimes in England and Wales, as of August last year. Not all wanted suspects will be on the database and some who are there could be counted twice.   crime   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Mar 2017   None
450   2% or 3% of lorries going through Dover aren’t going to the EU.   We haven’t seen the evidence to confirm this. We were told the figures came from the Port of Dover authorities, who have previously given similar figures to parliamentary committees. They have so far been unable to confirm the figures, so we’ve asked for more information.   https://fullfact.org/europe/lorries-dover/   We haven’t seen the evidence to confirm this. We were told the figures came from the Port of Dover authorities, who have previously given similar figures to parliamentary committees. They have so far been unable to confirm the figures, so we’ve asked for more information.   europe   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   27th Mar 2018   None
451   One in four mothers-to-be have mental health issues before they give birth.   Around one in four pregnant mothers included in a study by King’s College London had a mental health disorder when interviewed, but the study wasn’t designed to be representative of all pregnant women in the UK.   https://fullfact.org/health/mental-health-during-pregnancy/   Around one in four pregnant mothers included in a study by King’s College London had a mental health disorder when interviewed, but the study wasn’t designed to be representative of all pregnant women in the UK.   health   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Feb 2018   None
468   The share of jobs that are high-skilled is falling.   This was true in 2014, but over the longer run the share of high-skilled jobs in the economy has been increasing.   https://fullfact.org/economy/whats-happening-high-skilled-jobs/   This was true in 2014, but over the longer run the share of high-skilled jobs in the economy has been increasing.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Aug 2015   None
471   Trade with the EU is more than double that with Australia, Canada, India, New Zealand and the USA combined.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/europe/uk-trade-anglosphere-EU/   Correct.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd Jan 2017   None
472   The UK has introduced a special scheme for taking in vulnerable Syrian refugees, and 10,000 Syrian refugees have come to the UK since the conflict began.   It’s correct that over 10,000 Syrian refugees are now in the UK, although not all were brought over under this scheme. More than half made their own way to the UK.   https://fullfact.org/law/us-uk-syrian-refugees/   It’s correct that over 10,000 Syrian refugees are now in the UK, although not all were brought over under this scheme. More than half made their own way to the UK.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Feb 2017   None
473   The Treasury forecast a recession if the UK voted to leave the EU.   That’s correct.   https://fullfact.org/economy/brexit-uk-economy-growing-or-slowing/   That’s correct.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Jun 2017   None
474   Jeremy Corbyn said he’d abolish student debt before the election.   Mr Corbyn said he would “deal with it” in some way, and was looking at ways to reduce it, or abolish it, but also said there wasn’t a firm policy on it. Some media outlets and other MPs went further.   https://fullfact.org/education/student-debt-what-did-labour-say/   Mr Corbyn said he would “deal with it” in some way, and was looking at ways to reduce it, or abolish it, but also said there wasn’t a firm policy on it. Some media outlets and other MPs went further.   education   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Sep 2017   None
475   Many nurses have to go to food banks.   Media reports show that at least some individual nurses and trainees have visited food banks. We do not have solid evidence of the scale of use.   https://fullfact.org/health/nurses-second-jobs/   Media reports show that at least some individual nurses and trainees have visited food banks. We do not have solid evidence of the scale of use.   health   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   17th Nov 2017   None
476   Claiming to be living alone is one of the most common types of benefit fraud.   It was probably the fourth most common type of benefit fraud in 2016/17 where the specific reason was known, accounting for an estimated 9% of overpayments relating to fraud.   https://fullfact.org/economy/benefit-fraud-living-alone/   It was probably the fourth most common type of benefit fraud in 2016/17 where the specific reason was known, accounting for an estimated 9% of overpayments relating to fraud.   economy   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Feb 2018   None
478   The police budget has been protected since 2015.   The England and Wales police budget has been protected since 2015 with increased local taxation making up for reductions in central government funding. If local taxation for the police is maximised in future, police funding overall will be protected.   https://fullfact.org/crime/police-budgets-numbers-and-community-policing/   The England and Wales police budget has been protected since 2015 with increased local taxation making up for reductions in central government funding. If local taxation for the police is maximised in future, police funding overall will be protected.   crime   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th May 2018   None
479   The EU referendum was “advisory” only.   The referendum wasn’t legally binding, but there’s plenty of scope for argument about whether politicians should feel obliged to implement the result anyway.   https://fullfact.org/europe/was-eu-referendum-advisory/   The referendum wasn’t legally binding, but there’s plenty of scope for argument about whether politicians should feel obliged to implement the result anyway.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Nov 2016   None
480   The defence budget was cut by nearly 20% between 2010 and 2015.   Correct. Defence spending fell by 18% in real terms between 2010/11 and 2014/15, or by 22% comparing since 2009/10.   https://fullfact.org/economy/defence-spending/   Correct. Defence spending fell by 18% in real terms between 2010/11 and 2014/15, or by 22% comparing since 2009/10.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   16th Feb 2018   None
481   Leaving the EU means there would have to be border controls between Ireland and Northern Ireland.   That’s a matter of speculation at the moment. Some sort of customs checks on goods crossing the border would be needed, but not necessarily passport checks or stopping everyone.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-referendum-and-irish-border/   That’s a matter of speculation at the moment. Some sort of customs checks on goods crossing the border would be needed, but not necessarily passport checks or stopping everyone.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney and Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Apr 2018   None
483   One in five asylum seekers in the EU are from Syria.   This was correct for the EU asylum applications in spring 2015 (the latest figures available). But this was before a more recent surge in arrivals, and there is evidence to suggest that a high proportion of these people are from Syria.   https://fullfact.org/europe/are-only-one-five-asylum-seekers-syrian/   This was correct for the EU asylum applications in spring 2015 (the latest figures available). But this was before a more recent surge in arrivals, and there is evidence to suggest that a high proportion of these people are from Syria.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Sep 2015   None
486   The NHS had a deficit of over £800 million last year and is predicted to have a £2 billion deficit this year.   This is correct for NHS providers. It stood at £830 million last year and it's expected to rise, with some forecasting £2 billion or more in 2015/16.   https://fullfact.org/health/hospitals-red-size-nhs-provider-deficit/   This is correct for NHS providers. It stood at £830 million last year and it's expected to rise, with some forecasting £2 billion or more in 2015/16.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Aug 2015   None
497   David Davis has never said the government had impact assessments of the effect Brexit on different parts of the economy.   Although David Davis has never directly said “impact assessments”, as far as we can tell, he did confirm the existence of 57 impact assessments to a select committee.   https://fullfact.org/europe/brexit-impact-assessments/   Although David Davis has never directly said “impact assessments”, as far as we can tell, he did confirm the existence of 57 impact assessments to a select committee.   europe   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Dec 2017   None
511   Nearly one in five British Muslims has some sympathy with those who have fled the UK to fight for IS in Syria.   The survey asked about sympathy with "young Muslims who leave the UK to join fighters in Syria", not just those fighting in the conflict, and not just those fighting for IS.   https://fullfact.org/crime/do-one-five-uk-muslims-sympathise-britons-fighting/   The survey asked about sympathy with "young Muslims who leave the UK to join fighters in Syria", not just those fighting in the conflict, and not just those fighting for IS.   crime   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd Nov 2015   None
512   Since 2000, almost as many British military personnel have died in training or exercises as were killed in Iraq.   Correct, although some deaths may not have been directly related to the training.   https://fullfact.org/news/deaths-during-military-training-worse-iraq/   Correct, although some deaths may not have been directly related to the training.   news   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Jul 2016   None
513   51% of people working for the NHS aren’t clinically qualified.   51% of people working for the NHS are clinically qualified. Looking at it another way, that’s 53% of full-time equivalents.   https://fullfact.org/health/half-nhs-not-clinically-qualified/   51% of people working for the NHS are clinically qualified. Looking at it another way, that’s 53% of full-time equivalents.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Dec 2016   None
514   Class sizes are soaring under the Conservatives.   The average class size in English state primary schools has been increasing. It rose from 26.4 pupils in 2010 to 27.1 in 2016. In secondary schools, average class sizes have dropped from 20.5 to 20.4 in the same period.   https://fullfact.org/education/class-sizes-under-conservatives/   The average class size in English state primary schools has been increasing. It rose from 26.4 pupils in 2010 to 27.1 in 2016. In secondary schools, average class sizes have dropped from 20.5 to 20.4 in the same period.   education   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Mar 2017   None
515   Nearly a quarter of all researchers and a quarter of all clinicians at Great Ormond Street hospital are from other EU countries.   23% of doctors and 17% of all doctors and nurses at Great Ormond Street reported they were from the EU in 2015. We’re still trying to track down the figures on researchers.   https://fullfact.org/health/eu-staff-great-ormond-street-hospital/   23% of doctors and 17% of all doctors and nurses at Great Ormond Street reported they were from the EU in 2015. We’re still trying to track down the figures on researchers.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Nov 2016   None
517   Until 2004, immigration was around 50,000 a year and it’s risen since then.   50,000 is wrong, although immigration did increase considerably after 2004 as new countries joined the EU.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/immigration-uk-has-been-rising/   50,000 is wrong, although immigration did increase considerably after 2004 as new countries joined the EU.   immigration   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Dec 2016   None
518   Both the UK and Irish governments want to see free trade continue across the Irish border.   They do, but it’s not their choice to make, because Ireland is bound by EU trade policies.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-customs-union-and-irish-border/   They do, but it’s not their choice to make, because Ireland is bound by EU trade policies.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Dec 2016   None
519   Rail fares are out of control.   The average rail fare in Britain has increased by 20% in real terms since 1995, though it dropped by 1%, factoring in inflation, between 2017 and 2018.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-rail-fares-out-control/   The average rail fare in Britain has increased by 20% in real terms since 1995, though it dropped by 1%, factoring in inflation, between 2017 and 2018.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Jun 2018   None
533   More jobs — over 3 million jobs are linked to our trade with the EU, that's one in ten jobs (Source: HMT)   Estimates show around three million jobs are linked to our trade with other EU countries, but don’t tell us anything about the number of jobs linked to British membership of the EU. Nobody is forecasting that these three million jobs would be lost if we left the EU.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-referendum-voting-guide-stronger-jobs/   Estimates show around three million jobs are linked to our trade with other EU countries, but don’t tell us anything about the number of jobs linked to British membership of the EU. Nobody is forecasting that these three million jobs would be lost if we left the EU.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th May 2016   None
534   The EU will continue to control migration, trade, VAT, and vital security policies such as counter-terrorism. EU law will carry on having ultimate authority over British law   EU law does override UK law, and has mostly taken over control of trade, immigration from other EU countries, and VAT. The EU doesn’t control counter-terrorism or the intelligence services.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-referendum-voting-guide-vote-leave-eu-law/   EU law does override UK law, and has mostly taken over control of trade, immigration from other EU countries, and VAT. The EU doesn’t control counter-terrorism or the intelligence services.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th May 2016   None
536   40% of grassroots music venues in London have shut in the past eight years.   A report for the Mayor of London found 35% fewer venues in 2015 than 2007. City Hall says it’s now 40%.   https://fullfact.org/economy/no-longer-partying-all-night-london-nightclubs-closing/   A report for the Mayor of London found 35% fewer venues in 2015 than 2007. City Hall says it’s now 40%.   economy   None   Sinéad Boultwood   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Dec 2016   None
538   The UK has gone from being one of the top economic performers in terms of growth in the G7, Europe and the world to being bottom of the league in the last year.   It’s correct the UK had the fastest growing economy in the G7 in 2014 and was faster growing than the EU average in 2015. Various experts have said it is near the bottom of the G7 countries in 2017 and its growth is now lower the the EU average.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-economy-relegation-zone/   It’s correct the UK had the fastest growing economy in the G7 in 2014 and was faster growing than the EU average in 2015. Various experts have said it is near the bottom of the G7 countries in 2017 and its growth is now lower the the EU average.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Nov 2017   None
539   Police catch 11 year-olds being used to sell drugs.   We’ve not seen the evidence for this, though other data on the number of young people prosecuted for drug offences suggests it’s possible.   https://fullfact.org/crime/cannabis-kids-under-18s-prosecuted/   We’ve not seen the evidence for this, though other data on the number of young people prosecuted for drug offences suggests it’s possible.   crime   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Oct 2018   None
543   Independent experts have suggested that Google is paying an effective tax rate on its UK profits of around 3%.   This all comes down to how people think Google’s “economic activity” in the UK should be defined. Several experts have said that the amount of tax that Google is paying over the last decade represents only around 3-5% of the profits that they think Google should be taxed on. HMRC says that Google will be paying the full tax due. Without the full details, we don’t know to what extent this agreement accounts for the concerns that people have about Google’s tax arrangements.   https://fullfact.org/economy/google-paying-3-tax/   This all comes down to how people think Google’s “economic activity” in the UK should be defined. Several experts have said that the amount of tax that Google is paying over the last decade represents only around 3-5% of the profits that they think Google should be taxed on. HMRC says that Google will be paying the full tax due. Without the full details, we don’t know to what extent this agreement accounts for the concerns that people have about Google’s tax arrangements.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   28th Jan 2016   None
547   There were 334 fire deaths in England (including 71 at Grenfell). This is the worst year for fire deaths since 2010/11.   There were 334 fire-related fatalities in England, including 71 the Home Office counts as occurring as a result of Grenfell Tower fire. The last time this was higher was 2010/11 when there were 335 deaths.   https://fullfact.org/health/how-many-people-die-fires/   There were 334 fire-related fatalities in England, including 71 the Home Office counts as occurring as a result of Grenfell Tower fire. The last time this was higher was 2010/11 when there were 335 deaths.   health   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   16th Aug 2018   None
551   The UK dropping our EU treaty commitment to "ever closer union" would make us less likely to be drawn into a federal Europe.   Unlike opt-outs in specific areas of EU activity, this change wouldn't have a direct legal effect. Any impact would be mainly political.   https://fullfact.org/europe/renegotiating-ever-closer-union/   Unlike opt-outs in specific areas of EU activity, this change wouldn't have a direct legal effect. Any impact would be mainly political.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Jun 2016   None
554   The EU has shrunk as a percentage of the world economy.   That’s correct. The EU economy has grown in size, but the rest of the world economy has grown faster.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-has-shrunk-percentage-world-economy/   That’s correct. The EU economy has grown in size, but the rest of the world economy has grown faster.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Feb 2017   None
555   Government asset sales are a form of saving.   While asset sales can reduce the reported deficit in the short run, they won't have a significant effect in the longer term: the government can only sell an asset once.   https://fullfact.org/economy/do-asset-sales-save-government-money/   While asset sales can reduce the reported deficit in the short run, they won't have a significant effect in the longer term: the government can only sell an asset once.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Sep 2015   None
559   Corporation tax rates have gone down since 2010 but the amount raised by this tax has increased to £56 billion, the highest ever recorded.   It’s correct that the rate has fallen, but the actual amount raised in 2016/17 was £50 billion. The tricky question is how these two things are related. The government’s own estimates suggest it might have collected more without having made changes to corporation tax, even though these estimates are quite uncertain.   https://fullfact.org/economy/corporation-tax-rates-and-revenues/   It’s correct that the rate has fallen, but the actual amount raised in 2016/17 was £50 billion. The tricky question is how these two things are related. The government’s own estimates suggest it might have collected more without having made changes to corporation tax, even though these estimates are quite uncertain.   economy   None   Charlotte Browning   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Jun 2017   None
562   Beer sales at British pubs have risen after the vote to leave the EU.   This is wrong. The figures available mostly cover the period before the referendum, and show that pub sales actually fell, although overall beer sales rose.   https://fullfact.org/europe/brexit-beer-sales-pubs/   This is wrong. The figures available mostly cover the period before the referendum, and show that pub sales actually fell, although overall beer sales rose.   europe   None   Gabriel Pogrund   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Aug 2016   None
563   The UK has created more jobs than the rest of the EU put together.   The UK has seen a larger rise in employment than the rest of the EU combined. Some countries have seen employment fall since 2010, so the comparison isn't that useful.   https://fullfact.org/europe/has-uk-created-more-jobs-rest-eu-combined/   The UK has seen a larger rise in employment than the rest of the EU combined. Some countries have seen employment fall since 2010, so the comparison isn't that useful.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Jun 2016   None
572   There is a specific criminal offence of assaulting a police, immigration, or prison officer, but not of assaulting a doctor, nurse, or paramedic.   Correct, but the maximum sentence for assaulting a police officer is no higher than that for assaulting anyone else, and sentencing rules say that assaults on public sector workers of all kinds should be treated especially seriously.   https://fullfact.org/law/assaults-nhs-staff/   Correct, but the maximum sentence for assaulting a police officer is no higher than that for assaulting anyone else, and sentencing rules say that assaults on public sector workers of all kinds should be treated especially seriously.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   25th Jan 2017   None
573   The government has protected the schools budget.   That was correct in the recent past, and in the near future in terms of the overall amount. But per-pupil funding once inflation is taken into account is set to fall over the next few years.   https://fullfact.org/education/schools-funding-manifesto-breach/   That was correct in the recent past, and in the near future in terms of the overall amount. But per-pupil funding once inflation is taken into account is set to fall over the next few years.   education   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Mar 2017   None
577   The UK has £9 billion invested in the European Investment Bank.   Correct. This is the value of the UK’s shares in the EIB, based on its finances in 2016.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uks-stake-european-investment-bank/   Correct. This is the value of the UK’s shares in the EIB, based on its finances in 2016.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Jun 2017   None
580   There is a shortage of 40,000 nurses across the UK.   This is correct, according to an estimate of full-time equivalent nursing vacancies in December 2016 done by the Royal College of Nursing, though it only refers to England. That isn’t the same as the number of nurses NHS England needs.   https://fullfact.org/health/are-we-short-40000-nurses/   This is correct, according to an estimate of full-time equivalent nursing vacancies in December 2016 done by the Royal College of Nursing, though it only refers to England. That isn’t the same as the number of nurses NHS England needs.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Sep 2017   None
581   Raising public sector pay in line with inflation will cost £4 billion.   It's correct that it will cost £4 billion a year according to one estimate, although it's uncertain how accurate this will turn out to be.   https://fullfact.org/economy/cost-lifting-public-sector-pay-cap/   It's correct that it will cost £4 billion a year according to one estimate, although it's uncertain how accurate this will turn out to be.   economy   None   Will Hulme   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th Sep 2017   None
588   The last government repatriated 100 powers from Brussels.   The Lisbon Treaty, negotiated under the previous Labour government, allowed the Coalition to reclaim around 100 'powers' (specific legislative acts).   https://fullfact.org/europe/ask-full-fact-have-100-eu-powers-been-returned-uk/   The Lisbon Treaty, negotiated under the previous Labour government, allowed the Coalition to reclaim around 100 'powers' (specific legislative acts).   europe   None   Conor James McKinney, Josh Robbins   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   17th Aug 2015   None
592   New rules mean that men accused of rape must prove that the woman consented to sex.   The advice for police and prosecutors doesn't change the law. The state almost always has to prove lack of consent, and lack of a reasonable belief that there was.   https://fullfact.org/crime/factcheck-men-accused-rape-dont-have-prove-woman-said-yes/   The advice for police and prosecutors doesn't change the law. The state almost always has to prove lack of consent, and lack of a reasonable belief that there was.   crime   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Jan 2015   None
593   Recent changes to the law mean killers could avoid whole life terms by pleading guilty.   The new sentencing guidelines don’t change the law. If a whole life order is made in court, a guilty plea will not reduce the sentence. However, a judge will factor a guilty plea into the decision about whether to make a whole life order in the first place.   https://fullfact.org/crime/can-killers-now-avoid-life-prison-guilty-plea/   The new sentencing guidelines don’t change the law. If a whole life order is made in court, a guilty plea will not reduce the sentence. However, a judge will factor a guilty plea into the decision about whether to make a whole life order in the first place.   crime   None   Calum Young   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Feb 2016   None
596   The government has 'cut the deficit in half'.   The deficit as a percentage of GDP this year is forecast to be half its 2009/10 value, but this is not the case for the absolute value of the deficit.   https://fullfact.org/economy/factcheck-has-budget-deficit-been-halved/   The deficit as a percentage of GDP this year is forecast to be half its 2009/10 value, but this is not the case for the absolute value of the deficit.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   16th Dec 2014   None
599   The UK has a trade deficit with the EU.   That’s true overall. We have a trade surplus in services, and a much larger trade deficit in goods.   https://fullfact.org/europe/german-cars-uk/   That’s true overall. We have a trade surplus in services, and a much larger trade deficit in goods.   europe   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Dec 2016   None
600   £4.6 billion was cut from the adult social care budget in the last parliament.   The report behind the figure says the actual budget fell by £1.6 billion, with the rest of the £4.6 billion attributed to more people needing social care and the cost of social care having risen. We don’t know how accurate these figures are, though social care spending did fall overall during the last parliament. We’re checking the figures.   https://fullfact.org/health/social-care-funding-pmqs/   The report behind the figure says the actual budget fell by £1.6 billion, with the rest of the £4.6 billion attributed to more people needing social care and the cost of social care having risen. We don’t know how accurate these figures are, though social care spending did fall overall during the last parliament. We’re checking the figures.   health   None   Conor James McKinney and Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Dec 2016   None
601   There’s a £2.5 billion shortfall in social care funding.   The Local Government Association estimates a £2.6 billion gap in funding for adult social care by 2020. Other experts agree there’s a gap.   https://fullfact.org/health/shortfall-social-care-funding/   The Local Government Association estimates a £2.6 billion gap in funding for adult social care by 2020. Other experts agree there’s a gap.   health   None   Sinéad Boultwood   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Dec 2016   None
602   20 hospitals declared a ‘black alert’ on 11 January.   That's according to media reports, which say that 23 hospital trusts in England have reached the highest level on the NHS’s system for saying whether they are under pressure, or are otherwise under serious strain. The Department of Health doesn't use the term 'black alert'.   https://fullfact.org/health/how-many-hospital-black-alerts-were-there-week/   That's according to media reports, which say that 23 hospital trusts in England have reached the highest level on the NHS’s system for saying whether they are under pressure, or are otherwise under serious strain. The Department of Health doesn't use the term 'black alert'.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Jan 2017   None
603   There are more teachers.   We’re not sure of the timeframe for this claim, but teacher numbers generally did increase between 2010 and 2015, although the number of secondary teachers fell.   https://fullfact.org/education/teachers-first-class-degrees/   We’re not sure of the timeframe for this claim, but teacher numbers generally did increase between 2010 and 2015, although the number of secondary teachers fell.   education   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Mar 2017   None
605   A new police officer in 2010 has seen a real-terms increase in pay of 32%.   Correct given the pay progression this officer would have received if continually in post, but this increase is unlikely to reflect the experience of most officers today.   https://fullfact.org/crime/have-some-police-officers-had-32-pay-rise/   Correct given the pay progression this officer would have received if continually in post, but this increase is unlikely to reflect the experience of most officers today.   crime   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Sep 2017   None
606   The food and drinks industry say they face significant disruption and economic damage if EU nationals continue to leave the UK.   The UK's Food and Drink Federation has warned of this disruption, although we don’t know yet how many EU nationals in the industry will end up leaving the UK.   https://fullfact.org/economy/food-and-drinks-industry-after-eu-referendum/   The UK's Food and Drink Federation has warned of this disruption, although we don’t know yet how many EU nationals in the industry will end up leaving the UK.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th Sep 2017   None
607   It takes people in Germany four days to produce what people in the UK take five days to produce. This means they need to work fewer hours.   Correct. On average, German workers took around four hours to produce what UK workers did in five hours in 2016. Workers in the UK work longer days on average than German workers, so overall UK workers were 8.5% less productive than German workers in 2016.   https://fullfact.org/economy/productivity-germany/   Correct. On average, German workers took around four hours to produce what UK workers did in five hours in 2016. Workers in the UK work longer days on average than German workers, so overall UK workers were 8.5% less productive than German workers in 2016.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Nov 2017   None
619   Some grammar schools get less than £4,500 per pupil. Other state schools can receive as much as £8,000.   Correct. In 2016/17 English grammars received on average £4,500 per pupil while other state schools received £5,200.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-grammar-schools-facing-crisis-funding/   Correct. In 2016/17 English grammars received on average £4,500 per pupil while other state schools received £5,200.   education   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Aug 2018   None
620   Rail commuter fares are rising faster than wages.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/economy/fair-fares-how-much-are-season-tickets-increasing/   Correct.   economy   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th Aug 2018   None
622   60% of our trade is through EU trade agreements.   In 2016, around 54% of UK exports went to states with which the EU had a full or provisional trade agreement (including EU member states).   https://fullfact.org/europe/UK-EU-trade-agreements/   In 2016, around 54% of UK exports went to states with which the EU had a full or provisional trade agreement (including EU member states).   europe   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Mar 2018   None
626   The government has broken a manifesto pledge by removing drugs from the Cancer Drugs Fund.   In its manifesto the Conservative Party promised to continue to invest in the Fund, which has seen spending rise. But drugs have been removed from the list. And beyond 2016 it could be replaced by a new system.   https://fullfact.org/health/did-government-keep-its-promise-cancer-drugs-fund/   In its manifesto the Conservative Party promised to continue to invest in the Fund, which has seen spending rise. But drugs have been removed from the list. And beyond 2016 it could be replaced by a new system.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   28th Sep 2015   None
631   Record levels of working class students are leaving university before completing their degree.   The proportion of young UK students from disadvantaged areas dropping out of higher education in England by their second year is at its highest level for five years, but it’s not a record high. That’s looking at full-time students on their first degree, and is based on educational disadvantage. Disadvantaged students, including working class students, are generally more likely to drop out than advantaged.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-more-working-class-students-dropping-out-university/   The proportion of young UK students from disadvantaged areas dropping out of higher education in England by their second year is at its highest level for five years, but it’s not a record high. That’s looking at full-time students on their first degree, and is based on educational disadvantage. Disadvantaged students, including working class students, are generally more likely to drop out than advantaged.   education   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Aug 2017   None
633   Labour built 61,000 homes for social rent in Scotland.   Incorrect. 37,000 new-build social homes were started under eight years of Labour-Lib Dem coalition government in Scotland.   https://fullfact.org/economy/social-renting-scotland/   Incorrect. 37,000 new-build social homes were started under eight years of Labour-Lib Dem coalition government in Scotland.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   31st Aug 2018   None
637   In the EU at least 83m people (27%) suffer from mental health problems.   Research agrees that 27% of Europeans experience at least one mental disorder in a year. Population growth means it's probably over 120m people by now.   https://fullfact.org/health/about-27-europeans-are-likely-experience-mental-health-problem-year/   Research agrees that 27% of Europeans experience at least one mental disorder in a year. Population growth means it's probably over 120m people by now.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th Jul 2015   None
639   While some EU member states' population are shrinking, forecast put the UK's population at 70 million in the next decades. The UK is predicted to be the most populous country in the EU by 2050. Net migration into the UK is over 300,000 a year.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/population-immigration-and-eu-renegotiation/   Correct.   immigration   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Nov 2015   None
640   The head of Ofsted wants schools to discriminate on the basis of race when hiring teachers.   Sir Michael Wilshaw said that in some cases, he would hire an equally qualified person from an ethnic minority over another. But in law, this isn't 'discrimination'.   https://fullfact.org/education/factcheck-can-white-teachers-be-discriminated-against/   Sir Michael Wilshaw said that in some cases, he would hire an equally qualified person from an ethnic minority over another. But in law, this isn't 'discrimination'.   education   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Jan 2015   None
643   A 10% rise in immigration leads to a 2% reduction in wages.   The Bank of England found that a 10% increase in the proportion of foreign born workers in lower paid service jobs was associated with a near 2% fall in average pay for those jobs, when focusing on particular regions.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/does-immigration-reduce-wages/   The Bank of England found that a 10% increase in the proportion of foreign born workers in lower paid service jobs was associated with a near 2% fall in average pay for those jobs, when focusing on particular regions.   immigration   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Jun 2016   None
649   More than half of criminal trials in England and Wales have to rescheduled or called of.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/crime/cracking-efficiency-criminal-courts/   Correct.   crime   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   31st Jul 2015   None
650   By 2020 the government will have borrowed more than all Labour governments put together.   That’s true if you add up borrowing under Labour governments since 1945, whether or not you adjust for inflation. But it isn’t a fair comparison because the UK economy and the government have both got bigger.   https://fullfact.org/economy/government-borrowing/   That’s true if you add up borrowing under Labour governments since 1945, whether or not you adjust for inflation. But it isn’t a fair comparison because the UK economy and the government have both got bigger.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Mar 2017   None
651   94% of people in Wales don’t want independence.   On average 6% of people in Wales said they wanted independence when presented with a range of options on how Wales should be governed. This is comparing polls which ask a consistent question over the last five years. Other polls have asked slightly different questions and found a higher proportion in favour of independence, but it’s always in the minority.   https://fullfact.org/news/welsh-views-independence/   On average 6% of people in Wales said they wanted independence when presented with a range of options on how Wales should be governed. This is comparing polls which ask a consistent question over the last five years. Other polls have asked slightly different questions and found a higher proportion in favour of independence, but it’s always in the minority.   news   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Mar 2017   None
652   In January there were one million people in hospital who couldn’t leave because they had nowhere to go.   We’ve asked for the source of this claim, but it seems to be incorrect. In January there were 7,100 people in hospital at the end of the month who were medically fit to leave but hadn’t been discharged. Across the whole month there were 197,000 delayed days when patients fit to leave weren’t discharged.   https://fullfact.org/health/are-there-one-million-people-hospital-nowhere-else-go/   We’ve asked for the source of this claim, but it seems to be incorrect. In January there were 7,100 people in hospital at the end of the month who were medically fit to leave but hadn’t been discharged. Across the whole month there were 197,000 delayed days when patients fit to leave weren’t discharged.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th May 2017   None
654   There are more people in work in the UK than for many years.   Correct. 32 million people are in employment, which is a near record level, as is the employment rate at 75%.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-eurozone-lower-unemployment/   Correct. 32 million people are in employment, which is a near record level, as is the employment rate at 75%.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Nov 2017   None
655   Nurses are spending entire shifts in A&E car parks because of ambulance delays.   An unnamed nurse said this to ITV News, although we don’t know how widespread this is. One in six ambulances were delayed for over half an hour after arriving at A&Es in England in the first week of 2018.   https://fullfact.org/health/ambulances-delayed/   An unnamed nurse said this to ITV News, although we don’t know how widespread this is. One in six ambulances were delayed for over half an hour after arriving at A&Es in England in the first week of 2018.   health   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Jan 2018   None
656   The government will only open up extra housing for homeless people if the temperature is zero degrees for three days.   A scheme like this exists in England where councils can choose to take emergency measures when the temperature is forecast to be at or below zero degrees Celsius for three days in a row.   https://fullfact.org/news/homeless-people-cold-weather/   A scheme like this exists in England where councils can choose to take emergency measures when the temperature is forecast to be at or below zero degrees Celsius for three days in a row.   news   None   Joseph Shuttleworth   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th Dec 2017   None
657   The total number of murders in London, even excluding victims of terrorism, has risen by 38% since 2014.   Mostly correct. The number of homicides (not just murders) increased from 84 in 2014 to 116 in 2017. Over a longer period, the number of homicides in London has remained at around 100 per year.   https://fullfact.org/crime/has-number-murders-london-overtaken-new-york/   Mostly correct. The number of homicides (not just murders) increased from 84 in 2014 to 116 in 2017. Over a longer period, the number of homicides in London has remained at around 100 per year.   crime   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Apr 2018   None
658   There were more than 4,000 foreign criminals from other EU countries locked up in British jails last year.   This is how many prisoners in England and Wales at the end of 2017 were citizens of other EU countries.   https://fullfact.org/crime/eu-prisoners/   This is how many prisoners in England and Wales at the end of 2017 were citizens of other EU countries.   crime   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Apr 2018   None
659   Theresa May leads Jeremy Corbyn in the opinion polls.   It’s correct that Theresa May is more favoured as Prime Minister than Jeremy Corbyn in polls generally, though the Express poll only compares the two leaders on their economic credibility.   https://fullfact.org/news/how-are-theresa-may-and-jeremy-corbyn-doing-polls/   It’s correct that Theresa May is more favoured as Prime Minister than Jeremy Corbyn in polls generally, though the Express poll only compares the two leaders on their economic credibility.   news   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd May 2018   None
660   A quarter of the energy we use in Britain today comes from wind.   That’s a snapshot picture when wind is generating an unusually high amount of electricity. Over the course of a year, about 15% of the UK’s electricity comes from wind power.   https://fullfact.org/economy/about-15-uks-electricity-comes-wind/   That’s a snapshot picture when wind is generating an unusually high amount of electricity. Over the course of a year, about 15% of the UK’s electricity comes from wind power.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Mar 2018   None
661   The Institute for Public Policy Research found household bills will rise by between £245 and £1,961 a year after Brexit.   Incorrect. Consultancy Oliver Wyman (not the IPPR) estimate household bills will rise by between £245 and £961 (not £1,961) a year after Brexit. The figure of £1,961 was a typo in a newspaper.   https://fullfact.org/europe/claim-about-2000-cost-hard-brexit-comes-typo/   Incorrect. Consultancy Oliver Wyman (not the IPPR) estimate household bills will rise by between £245 and £961 (not £1,961) a year after Brexit. The figure of £1,961 was a typo in a newspaper.   europe   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Jul 2018   None
666   Analysis by the Children’s Society has found that more than 1 million children living in poverty would miss out on a free school meal because of the cliff edge.   This comes from a rough estimate of how many children could receive free school meals under the new income threshold, compared to the number of children living in poverty. It is not a calculation of how many will miss out compared to the old benefit-linked system.   https://fullfact.org/education/free-school-meals-and-universal-credit/   This comes from a rough estimate of how many children could receive free school meals under the new income threshold, compared to the number of children living in poverty. It is not a calculation of how many will miss out compared to the old benefit-linked system.   education   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Mar 2018   None
681   Introducing an ‘opt-out’ system of organ donation in England could allow as many as 700 more lives to be saved a year.   This is the government’s ambition but it’s based on very uncertain estimates, which in turn rely on a lot of assumptions. There is currently little evidence for how much changing the consent system actually improves transplant rates, if at all.   https://fullfact.org/health/could-opt-out-organ-donation-save-700-lives-year/   This is the government’s ambition but it’s based on very uncertain estimates, which in turn rely on a lot of assumptions. There is currently little evidence for how much changing the consent system actually improves transplant rates, if at all.   health   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Aug 2018   None
686   Two thirds of people with mental health conditions claiming PIP receive the higher daily living allowance compared to less than a quarter under DLA.   The figures are correct, 66% compared to 22%, but fewer people are claiming PIP, and only 39% of those who have moved from DLA to PIP have been awarded more money than they were receiving under DLA.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-people-mental-health-conditions-now-receiving-higher-disability-benefit-payments/   The figures are correct, 66% compared to 22%, but fewer people are claiming PIP, and only 39% of those who have moved from DLA to PIP have been awarded more money than they were receiving under DLA.   economy   None   Sinéad Boultwood   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Jul 2017   None
687   The NHS internal market, created in the 1990s, costs around £10 billion a year.   There’s no evidence to prove this. Research that arrives at this figure just estimates increases in admin costs over time, rather than trying to single out what impact the internal market has had.   https://fullfact.org/health/cost-creating-internal-market-nhs/   There’s no evidence to prove this. Research that arrives at this figure just estimates increases in admin costs over time, rather than trying to single out what impact the internal market has had.   health   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   27th Feb 2018   None
696   Conservative-led changes to corporation tax, inheritance tax, capital gains tax and the bank levy will lose the government £70 billion between April 2016 and April 2022.   The individual figures stand up to a degree of scrutiny, but this claim gives a limited picture of how these taxes have changed overall.   https://fullfact.org/economy/have-conservatives-brought-70-billion-worth-tax-cuts/   The individual figures stand up to a degree of scrutiny, but this claim gives a limited picture of how these taxes have changed overall.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   20th Mar 2017   None
698   A third of stops and searches in London results in something being found.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/crime/stops-and-searches-are-becoming-less-common/   Correct.   crime   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Aug 2017   None
700   There are record numbers of young people going to university, including from disadvantaged backgrounds.   Accurate based on numbers and rates of young people accepted onto full-time places at university in England. Advantaged students are still substantially more likely to go to university.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-there-record-numbers-young-people-going-university/   Accurate based on numbers and rates of young people accepted onto full-time places at university in England. Advantaged students are still substantially more likely to go to university.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Aug 2016   None
714   Former housing minister, Gavin Barwell, failed to give the go-ahead to a safety review, despite it having been delayed for years.   A review of the fire safety part of building regulations was recommended to the government in 2013. The government said it would conduct a review and publish updated regulations in 2016/17. The regulations remain unchanged. The government says the work is ongoing.   https://fullfact.org/law/fire-safety-regulations-has-government-delayed-reviewing-them/   A review of the fire safety part of building regulations was recommended to the government in 2013. The government said it would conduct a review and publish updated regulations in 2016/17. The regulations remain unchanged. The government says the work is ongoing.   law   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   21st Jun 2017   None
723   Workers coming to the UK on very low salaries can claim over £10,000 in benefits.   It is possible for low-paid workers to claim this much in benefits currently. Migrants from the EU who work here have the same right to benefits as UK nationals, which may be difficult to change under EU law.   https://fullfact.org/economy/can-working-immigrants-claim-over-10000-benefits/   It is possible for low-paid workers to claim this much in benefits currently. Migrants from the EU who work here have the same right to benefits as UK nationals, which may be difficult to change under EU law.   economy   None   Laura O'Brien, Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Oct 2015   None
724   The UK population is 61.6 million, of whom 194,000 are refugees.   The latest estimate of the UK population was 64.6 million, as of 2014. The UN's latest estimate suggests that there were 117,000 refugees living in the UK that year.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/ask-full-fact-how-many-refugees-are-uk-population/   The latest estimate of the UK population was 64.6 million, as of 2014. The UN's latest estimate suggests that there were 117,000 refugees living in the UK that year.   immigration   None   Conor James McKinney, Simon Wasser   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Oct 2015   None
728   The Conservatives have overseen the deepest cuts to post-16 education ever.   Last Parliament saw spending on 16-19 education fall by 4% a year (after inflation). This contrasts with an increase of 8% a year on average between 1998 and 2009, according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies (we don't have comparable data before then).   https://fullfact.org/education/16-19-education-saw-largest-fall-education-spending-over-last-parliament/   Last Parliament saw spending on 16-19 education fall by 4% a year (after inflation). This contrasts with an increase of 8% a year on average between 1998 and 2009, according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies (we don't have comparable data before then).   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Oct 2015   None
729   The EU Court of Justice has decided that obese people are disabled, and so entitled to protection under employment law.   Not correct. The court said that an obese person can be considered disabled, if their ability to work is limited. In itself this isn't a major change.   https://fullfact.org/europe/factcheck-did-eu-rule-obesity-disability/   Not correct. The court said that an obese person can be considered disabled, if their ability to work is limited. In itself this isn't a major change.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Dec 2014   None
730   The Department for Work and Pensions is or isn't carrying out a review of 60 suicides linked to benefits.   The DWP has carried out internal 'Peer Reviews' in 40 individual cases since February 2012 after the suicide or apparent suicide of a customer.   https://fullfact.org/law/dwp-reviewing-link-between-suicides-and-welfare-reform/   The DWP has carried out internal 'Peer Reviews' in 40 individual cases since February 2012 after the suicide or apparent suicide of a customer.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th May 2015   None
735   People with white-sounding names are nearly twice as likely to get call backs for jobs than people with ethnic sounding names.   In a 2009 experimental study, 10.7% of applicants with a white sounding name received a positive response, compared with 6.2% of applicants with an ethnic minority sounding name - making them 74% more likely to get a positive response.   https://fullfact.org/economy/job-applicants-ethnic-minority-sounding-names-are-less-likely-be-called-interview/   In a 2009 experimental study, 10.7% of applicants with a white sounding name received a positive response, compared with 6.2% of applicants with an ethnic minority sounding name - making them 74% more likely to get a positive response.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Oct 2015   None
736   The UK missed its interim renewable energy target.   The UK's target was for 5.4% of its energy consumption to come from renewable sources over 2013 and 2014. Provisional calculations show it met this target.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-we-missing-our-targets-renewable-energy/   The UK's target was for 5.4% of its energy consumption to come from renewable sources over 2013 and 2014. Provisional calculations show it met this target.   economy   None   Hoagy Cunningham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Oct 2015   None
737   There were 2,000 new social homes in 2014/15, compared to 12,000 social homes which were sold as part of the Right to Buy scheme.   These figure are correct for social homes sold and being built by local authorities in England.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-homes-sold-under-right-buy-being-replaced/   These figure are correct for social homes sold and being built by local authorities in England.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Jan 2016   None
743   There was an £8 billion increase in revenues from additional rate taxpayers after the top rate of tax was reduced from 50p to 45p.   Revenues did increase by that much, but tax receipts were artificially low in 2012/13 and artificially high in 2013/14 due to people ‘deferring’ income from one tax year to another in order to benefit from the lower tax rate. So this can’t be described as the amount of money raised by the reduction in the rate.   https://fullfact.org/economy/did-cutting-50p-rate-tax-raise-8-billion/   Revenues did increase by that much, but tax receipts were artificially low in 2012/13 and artificially high in 2013/14 due to people ‘deferring’ income from one tax year to another in order to benefit from the lower tax rate. So this can’t be described as the amount of money raised by the reduction in the rate.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Mar 2016   None
745   Over 3 million UK jobs are linked to our exports to the EU - that’s one in every ten UK jobs.   Estimates show around 3 million jobs are linked to our trade with other EU countries, but don’t tell us anything about the number of jobs linked to British membership of the EU. Nobody is forecasting that these 3 million jobs would be lost if we left the EU.   https://fullfact.org/europe/stronger-facts-leaflet-jobs/   Estimates show around 3 million jobs are linked to our trade with other EU countries, but don’t tell us anything about the number of jobs linked to British membership of the EU. Nobody is forecasting that these 3 million jobs would be lost if we left the EU.   europe   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd May 2016   None
746   Theresa May’s Brexit speech saw the pound rise to its highest level in two years.   This is wrong. The pound saw its biggest one-day rise against the dollar since 2008, but it’s still below the rates it has been at in recent years.   https://fullfact.org/economy/pound-isnt-its-highest-level-two-years/   This is wrong. The pound saw its biggest one-day rise against the dollar since 2008, but it’s still below the rates it has been at in recent years.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th Jan 2017   None
747   Six million people earn below the living wage.   Around six million jobs pay less than the living wage as calculated by the Living Wage Foundation. That's not quite the same as six million people because some people have more than one job.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-six-million-people-earning-less-living-wage/   Around six million jobs pay less than the living wage as calculated by the Living Wage Foundation. That's not quite the same as six million people because some people have more than one job.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Apr 2017   None
748   Households are £900 worse off due to increased energy bills since 2010.   That's adding up the increase in average electricity and gas bills in each of the six years from 2010 to 2016 (adjusting for inflation) if energy use stayed the same over this time. It hasn't. The Committee on Climate Change has said that household bills in 2016 were lower than they were in 2008, due to reductions in energy use.   https://fullfact.org/economy/energy-bills-under-conservatives/   That's adding up the increase in average electricity and gas bills in each of the six years from 2010 to 2016 (adjusting for inflation) if energy use stayed the same over this time. It hasn't. The Committee on Climate Change has said that household bills in 2016 were lower than they were in 2008, due to reductions in energy use.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Jun 2017   None
749   The US is the UK’s second largest trading partner.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-trade-usa/   Correct.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Nov 2016   None
750   The government has secured almost £160 billion extra since 2010 as a result of tax compliance activities.   Correct according to HMRC estimates, but a large part of this figure covers money the government thinks it will get in future as a result of actions already taken, rather than money actually saved so far.   https://fullfact.org/economy/government-recouped-tax-evasion-avoidance/   Correct according to HMRC estimates, but a large part of this figure covers money the government thinks it will get in future as a result of actions already taken, rather than money actually saved so far.   economy   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Nov 2017   None
754   Men may be taken to court and face serious sentences if they whistle at a woman and she calls the police, if proposals to count misogyny as a hate crime go ahead.   Even if rules do change on categorising hate crimes, wolf whistling in isolation would likely be classified as a hate incident, rather than crime, as it is not illegal. So wolf whistling alone is unlikely to result in prosecution.   https://fullfact.org/law/wolf-whistling-about-become-illegal/   Even if rules do change on categorising hate crimes, wolf whistling in isolation would likely be classified as a hate incident, rather than crime, as it is not illegal. So wolf whistling alone is unlikely to result in prosecution.   law   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Jul 2018   None
755   Some of the foreign aid budget went on China’s film and museum industry last year.   Correct, at least £440,000 of Overseas Development Aid was spent on Chinese film, TV and museum projects in 2016/17.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-foreign-aid-funding-filming-beijing/   Correct, at least £440,000 of Overseas Development Aid was spent on Chinese film, TV and museum projects in 2016/17.   economy   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Jun 2018   None
756   The UK paid out £674 million in health costs to European countries, but received only £49 million in return. Addressing this could “transform the financial situation of the NHS”.   The figures are broadly correct, although addressing this situation would in itself only have a marginal impact on the financial situation of the NHS.   https://fullfact.org/health/how-much-does-uk-recover-health-costs-eu/   The figures are broadly correct, although addressing this situation would in itself only have a marginal impact on the financial situation of the NHS.   health   None   Robin Wilkinson   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Sep 2018   None
757   The NHS Pay Review Body reports that 80% of of the midwives who left the profession would’ve stayed if they were valued more highly.   Not quite. The NHS Pay Review Body says that according to the Royal College of Midwives 80% of the midwives who were intending to leave midwifery in the next two years said that increased pay would encourage them to stay in midwifery. But the same survey found the biggest concern  was staffing levels.   https://fullfact.org/health/midwives-leaving-profession/   Not quite. The NHS Pay Review Body says that according to the Royal College of Midwives 80% of the midwives who were intending to leave midwifery in the next two years said that increased pay would encourage them to stay in midwifery. But the same survey found the biggest concern  was staffing levels.   health   None   Charlotte Browning   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th Jun 2017   None
765   The UK has taken in only 216 Syrian refugees.   The UK has taken in around 5,000 Syrian refugees. The 216 figure refers to an additional number resettled from around Syria under one particular scheme.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/has-uk-only-taken-216-syrian-refugees/   The UK has taken in around 5,000 Syrian refugees. The 216 figure refers to an additional number resettled from around Syria under one particular scheme.   immigration   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   3rd Sep 2015   None
766   British pupils are suffering because teachers are struggling to cope with an influx of foreign students speaking different languages.   The proportion of pupils with English as an additional language has been rising. But research suggests the performance of pupils with English as their first language isn't affected by this.   https://fullfact.org/education/immigration-affecting-performance-native-english-speakers-schools/   The proportion of pupils with English as an additional language has been rising. But research suggests the performance of pupils with English as their first language isn't affected by this.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Dec 2015   None
769   Three in four academy chains contain secondary schools which could be seen as 'coasting'  under the government's definition.   It's impossible to know yet how many schools will be labelled 'coasting', as it depends on performance in 2015 and 2016.   https://fullfact.org/education/coasting-schools-three-strikes-and-youre-out/   It's impossible to know yet how many schools will be labelled 'coasting', as it depends on performance in 2015 and 2016.   education   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Jul 2015   None
770   40% of fines for pupil absence go unpaid.   Incorrect. About 20% of fines went unpaid in England in 2012/13. 63% were paid within the maximum time limit, but some of the remainder were withdrawn rather than unpaid.   https://fullfact.org/education/how-many-truanting-fines-go-unpaid-parents/   Incorrect. About 20% of fines went unpaid in England in 2012/13. 63% were paid within the maximum time limit, but some of the remainder were withdrawn rather than unpaid.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Oct 2015   None
771   Top universities make offers to 55% of white applicants, but only to 23% of black ones.   These figures are correct, according to research looking at offers made by Russell Group universities, although they relate to applications rather than applicants. The reasons for the difference are complex - research has had conflicting findings on whether there is underlying discrimination.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-white-applicants-more-likely-receive-offers-top-universities-black-applicants/   These figures are correct, according to research looking at offers made by Russell Group universities, although they relate to applications rather than applicants. The reasons for the difference are complex - research has had conflicting findings on whether there is underlying discrimination.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Oct 2015   None
788   Independent experts from the Committee on Climate Change have said that a new runway at Heathrow can be delivered within the targets for greenhouse gas emissions.   The Committee called on the government to publish a strategy for how emissions targets would be achieved, in light of planned expansion at Heathrow. It has also provided specific advice on how this could be done.   https://fullfact.org/economy/heathrow-airport-emissions-targets/   The Committee called on the government to publish a strategy for how emissions targets would be achieved, in light of planned expansion at Heathrow. It has also provided specific advice on how this could be done.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th Nov 2016   None
789   A million people accessed a food bank last year and only 40,000 did so in 2010.   A million food packs were given out by the Trussell Trust last year, and 40,000 in 2010. One million people using all food banks in the country is plausible, but we don’t have complete figures.   https://fullfact.org/economy/food-banks-hard-say-whether-rising-use-reflects-rising-demand/   A million food packs were given out by the Trussell Trust last year, and 40,000 in 2010. One million people using all food banks in the country is plausible, but we don’t have complete figures.   economy   None   Sinéad Boultwood   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Nov 2016   None
798   Public satisfaction with the NHS is higher after seven years of Conservative government than after the first five years of the last Labour government.   It’s true that NHS satisfaction was higher in 2015 than 2002. Satisfaction went up significantly during the whole length of Labour’s last stint in power between 1997 and 2010, and has levelled off since the Conservatives entered office.   https://fullfact.org/health/public-satisfaction-nhs-2015/   It’s true that NHS satisfaction was higher in 2015 than 2002. Satisfaction went up significantly during the whole length of Labour’s last stint in power between 1997 and 2010, and has levelled off since the Conservatives entered office.   health   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Jan 2017   None
800   The bank levy has been cut   It has, but it’s been replaced by a surcharge on bank profits, which is expected to increase taxes on banking.   https://fullfact.org/economy/tax-cuts-corporation-tax-inheritance-tax-capital-gains-tax-and-bank-levy/   It has, but it’s been replaced by a surcharge on bank profits, which is expected to increase taxes on banking.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Mar 2017   None
801   Reversing recent cuts to Capital Gains Tax will save £2.7 billion.   Correct according to official estimates, although the true amount could vary a bit either way.   https://fullfact.org/crime/can-300-million-pay-10000-police-officers/   Correct according to official estimates, although the true amount could vary a bit either way.   crime   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th May 2017   None
802   The number of people unhappy with the NHS is at the highest level for 30 years.   The rise in dissatisfaction with the NHS over the past year is the largest annual increase in 30 years. The level of dissatisfaction is now roughly where it was between 2011 and 2013. It has previously been much higher.   https://fullfact.org/health/level-dissatisfaction-nhs-not-highest-record/   The rise in dissatisfaction with the NHS over the past year is the largest annual increase in 30 years. The level of dissatisfaction is now roughly where it was between 2011 and 2013. It has previously been much higher.   health   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Feb 2016   None
806   Writing off current student loans would cost £100 billion.   This is roughly the value of current student loans in the UK, including maintenance loans. But the true ‘additional’ cost of a policy to write off current student loans, compared to the amount the government already ‘writes off’ from unpaid loans, would be lower than this.   https://fullfact.org/education/100-billion-cost-writing-student-debt/   This is roughly the value of current student loans in the UK, including maintenance loans. But the true ‘additional’ cost of a policy to write off current student loans, compared to the amount the government already ‘writes off’ from unpaid loans, would be lower than this.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Jul 2017   None
807   The amount of income tax paid by the super-rich has fallen from £4.4 billion to £3.5 billion since 2009.   The numbers are correct—up to 2014/15—but it's not a fair comparison. Tax rates changed in 2010 and some rich people moved their income around to avoid tax, which distorts the figures.   https://fullfact.org/economy/are-super-rich-paying-less-income-tax/   The numbers are correct—up to 2014/15—but it's not a fair comparison. Tax rates changed in 2010 and some rich people moved their income around to avoid tax, which distorts the figures.   economy   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Nov 2017   None
808   Profit on the Crown Estate over the last 10 years is enough to pay for the renovation of Buckingham Palace six times over.   That’s about right.   https://fullfact.org/economy/paying-buckingham-palace-cost-refurbishment/   That’s about right.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Nov 2016   None
809   Changes in government energy policy since 2015 may have added £120 a year to household bills.   The confidence of energy investors has been shaken, according to the Energy and Climate Change Committee. If so this could raise household bills in the long term. But the specific £120 figure isn’t particularly credible.   https://fullfact.org/energy-bill/renewable-subsidy-cuts-might-raise-bills-long-term-we-dont-know-how-much/   The confidence of energy investors has been shaken, according to the Energy and Climate Change Committee. If so this could raise household bills in the long term. But the specific £120 figure isn’t particularly credible.   energy-bill   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Mar 2016   None
810   Housing Benefit spending has risen by £4 billion.   Correct. The rise was £4.3 billion between 2009/10 and 2014/15 according to the Department for Work and Pensions, or £2.3 billion adjusted for inflation.   https://fullfact.org/economy/spending-housing-benefit/   Correct. The rise was £4.3 billion between 2009/10 and 2014/15 according to the Department for Work and Pensions, or £2.3 billion adjusted for inflation.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Nov 2016   None
811   It takes a German worker four days to produce what a UK worker makes in five.   Roughly correct in 2015. On average, it took a German worker under four hours to make what a UK worker made in five hours. Since they worked fewer hours each week, they took about four and a half days to produce what a UK worker produced in five.   https://fullfact.org/economy/germans-work-less-earn-more-more-productive-than-uk/   Roughly correct in 2015. On average, it took a German worker under four hours to make what a UK worker made in five hours. Since they worked fewer hours each week, they took about four and a half days to produce what a UK worker produced in five.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd Nov 2016   None
814   George Osborne promised to eliminate the deficit by 2015.   In 2010 he said that the government's aim was for the deficit to be eliminated by 2015. While an aim isn't a promise, the government's performance on the deficit has been worse than was aimed for.   https://fullfact.org/economy/did-george-osborne-promise-eliminate-deficit-year/   In 2010 he said that the government's aim was for the deficit to be eliminated by 2015. While an aim isn't a promise, the government's performance on the deficit has been worse than was aimed for.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Nov 2015   None
835   120,000 more six year olds are passing the phonics screening check.   The proportion of six year olds reaching the expected level in phonics screening check has increased by 19 percentage points from 2012 to 2015 - the equivalent of 120,000 more children meeting the standard in 2015.   https://fullfact.org/education/phonics-are-more-six-year-olds-track-become-confident-readers/   The proportion of six year olds reaching the expected level in phonics screening check has increased by 19 percentage points from 2012 to 2015 - the equivalent of 120,000 more children meeting the standard in 2015.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   23rd Nov 2015   None
836   Giving all children a daily free meal at school improves their results.   That’s the conclusion of a prominent study of a pilot programme carried out a few years ago, although some of its authors have cautioned against it being used to justify the roll-out of this policy nationwide. Older studies have pointed in the same direction.   https://fullfact.org/education/free-school-meals-and-educational-performance/   That’s the conclusion of a prominent study of a pilot programme carried out a few years ago, although some of its authors have cautioned against it being used to justify the roll-out of this policy nationwide. Older studies have pointed in the same direction.   education   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Apr 2017   None
837   The Conservative government has cut benefits for more than two children in a family unless the mother can prove she was raped when that child was conceived.   The Conservative government has introduced a two-child cap on the per-child payment under Child Tax Credit. There are five exceptions to this cap, including an exception for conception during non-consensual sex or sex in an abusive relationship. The criminal offence of rape doesn’t have to be proven but evidence of non-consensual sex related to conception must be provided.   https://fullfact.org/economy/what-rape-clause/   The Conservative government has introduced a two-child cap on the per-child payment under Child Tax Credit. There are five exceptions to this cap, including an exception for conception during non-consensual sex or sex in an abusive relationship. The criminal offence of rape doesn’t have to be proven but evidence of non-consensual sex related to conception must be provided.   economy   None   Charlotte Browning   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th May 2017   None
840   There are 80 courts in the UK enforcing Sharia law.   People can agree to ask a Sharia council to make a legally binding decision, but this must be in line with English law. No-one knows how many councils exist.   https://fullfact.org/law/are-there-80-sharia-courts-britain/   People can agree to ask a Sharia council to make a legally binding decision, but this must be in line with English law. No-one knows how many councils exist.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Jan 2015   None
843   Wealthy professionals are most likely to drink regularly.   Broadly correct. We don’t have the exact data to confirm this, but high earners and people in professional jobs are more likely to say that they drink weekly than other people.   https://fullfact.org/health/pro-sesh-ional-classes-do-wealthy-people-drink-more-regularly/   Broadly correct. We don’t have the exact data to confirm this, but high earners and people in professional jobs are more likely to say that they drink weekly than other people.   health   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th May 2018   None
845   The UK is one of the three countries that puts the most money into the EU budget.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/europe/uk-one-biggest-contributors-eu-budget/   Correct.   europe   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Jul 2018   None
847   The number of doctors in specialist psychiatry training fell from 3,187 in 2009 to 2,588 in the first quarter of this year.   This 20% drop was between September 2009 and March 2018, which isn’t a fair comparison. Comparing September 2009 and 2017 there was a 15% decrease.   https://fullfact.org/health/mental-health-there-are-fewer-beds-nurses-and-psychiatry-trainees-2010/   This 20% drop was between September 2009 and March 2018, which isn’t a fair comparison. Comparing September 2009 and 2017 there was a 15% decrease.   health   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Jul 2018   None
865   A relentless workload is forcing teachers to leave the profession for lower paid jobs.   Research found people leaving teaching roles in state schools are ending up in jobs which are on average lower paid, at least in their first year. It's not clear to what extent workload pressures are encouraging teachers to leave for lower paid jobs specifically.   https://fullfact.org/education/relentless-workload-forcing-teachers-leave-lower-paid-jobs/   Research found people leaving teaching roles in state schools are ending up in jobs which are on average lower paid, at least in their first year. It's not clear to what extent workload pressures are encouraging teachers to leave for lower paid jobs specifically.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Dec 2015   None
874   Cuts to tax credits will cost low-paid working families £1,300 a year.   £1,300 is a "rough" estimate of the average reduction in income next year (2016/17).   https://fullfact.org/economy/will-changes-tax-credits-cost-families-1300-year/   £1,300 is a "rough" estimate of the average reduction in income next year (2016/17).   economy   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Oct 2015   None
877   People who have a stroke at the weekend are 20% more likely to die than if it happened on a weekday.   Academic research backs that up, although it's difficult to say why. It's possible that people treated at the weekend are more seriously ill on average.   https://fullfact.org/health/ask-full-fact-stroke-patients-and-weekend-deaths/   Academic research backs that up, although it's difficult to say why. It's possible that people treated at the weekend are more seriously ill on average.   health   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Jan 2016   None
878   Black workers face a widening pay gap the more qualifications they earn.   There’s evidence of an overall pay gap, but the relationship between qualifications and pay is complicated. The claim is based on analysis comparing the average earnings of black and white workers over an annual period. It doesn’t take account of things like the grades obtained in each qualification, where graduates have studied and what types of jobs they end up in. Nor does it mean that this will be the experience that individual workers have—it tells us what the gap looks like overall.   https://fullfact.org/economy/do-black-workers-face-widening-pay-gap-more-qualifications-they-earn/   There’s evidence of an overall pay gap, but the relationship between qualifications and pay is complicated. The claim is based on analysis comparing the average earnings of black and white workers over an annual period. It doesn’t take account of things like the grades obtained in each qualification, where graduates have studied and what types of jobs they end up in. Nor does it mean that this will be the experience that individual workers have—it tells us what the gap looks like overall.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Feb 2016   None
881   Child poverty increased by 250,000 in a single year under the Conservatives.   This is correct by one measure. According to HMRC the number of children in poverty went from 18% to 20% between 2013 and 2014, an increase of 250,000 children. This is a return to 2010 levels.   https://fullfact.org/economy/child-poverty-depending-how-you-look-it/   This is correct by one measure. According to HMRC the number of children in poverty went from 18% to 20% between 2013 and 2014, an increase of 250,000 children. This is a return to 2010 levels.   economy   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Oct 2016   None
882   FIFA doesn't allow poppies to be worn on international football jerseys.   Correct, but in 2011 they allowed armbands embroidered with poppies to be worn.   https://fullfact.org/law/football-poppy-ban-fifa/   Correct, but in 2011 they allowed armbands embroidered with poppies to be worn.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Nov 2016   None
887   Predictions of negative economic consequences immediately after a vote to leave the EU haven’t come to pass.   That’s correct. Predicted lower growth and an emergency budget didn’t happen, although sterling has fallen significantly. Economists still expect there to be an impact on growth in the coming years, not least after we actually leave the EU.   https://fullfact.org/economy/brexit-and-economic-apocalypse/   That’s correct. Predicted lower growth and an emergency budget didn’t happen, although sterling has fallen significantly. Economists still expect there to be an impact on growth in the coming years, not least after we actually leave the EU.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   3rd Feb 2017   None
888   Over one million vulnerable people are unable to look after themselves due to reductions in spending on social care.   Analysis by Age UK found that there were 1.2 million over 65s who experienced difficulty with basic tasks such as eating and washing.   https://fullfact.org/health/are-there-one-million-older-people-unable-look-after-themselves/   Analysis by Age UK found that there were 1.2 million over 65s who experienced difficulty with basic tasks such as eating and washing.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th May 2017   None
889   The top 10 Commonwealth countries take 8% of UK exports.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-trade-commonwealth/   Correct.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Jun 2017   None
890   The government has changed the definition of child poverty, meaning that figures showing no significant change since 2010 can’t be trusted.   They haven’t changed what’s counted or how it’s counted. They did change the target. We can still use the original measures of child poverty to see whether the numbers are going up or down.   https://fullfact.org/economy/ask-full-fact-have-conservatives-redefined-child-poverty/   They haven’t changed what’s counted or how it’s counted. They did change the target. We can still use the original measures of child poverty to see whether the numbers are going up or down.   economy   None   Full Fact team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Jun 2017   None
892   Only a tiny proportion of rapes ever reach trial.   Around one in ten rapes or attempted rapes reported to police in England and Wales are brought to trial. Research from 2013 estimated that between one in twenty and one in thirty rape cases end up at trial.   https://fullfact.org/crime/how-many-reported-rapes-go-to-trial/   Around one in ten rapes or attempted rapes reported to police in England and Wales are brought to trial. Research from 2013 estimated that between one in twenty and one in thirty rape cases end up at trial.   crime   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Feb 2018   None
893   Free movement of people across the EU means that migrants now fill one in nine jobs in Britain.   About one in nine UK workers were estimated to be foreign nationals in 2016, including nationals from outside the EU.  This proportion has been increasing, which the ONS has said is mostly down to EU immigration.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/are-one-nine-uk-workers-migrants/   About one in nine UK workers were estimated to be foreign nationals in 2016, including nationals from outside the EU.  This proportion has been increasing, which the ONS has said is mostly down to EU immigration.   immigration   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Apr 2017   None
906   3.3m people diagnosed with diabetes in the UK in 2013/14, whilst an additional 590,000 are undiagnosed.   GP practice registers support the 3.3m figure, but the methodology and reliability of the undiagnosed figure is more uncertain.   https://fullfact.org/health/diagnosis-unknown-how-many-diabetes-cases-go-undetected/   GP practice registers support the 3.3m figure, but the methodology and reliability of the undiagnosed figure is more uncertain.   health   None   Amelia Ash   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   17th Aug 2015   None
907   Three quarters of hospitals in England are unsafe.   This is the sum of hospitals rated inadequate or requiring improvements in safety by the Care Quality Commission. It doesn't define all these as unsafe. The inspected hospitals aren't known to be representative of all hospitals in England.   https://fullfact.org/health/are-three-quarters-hospitals-england-unsafe/   This is the sum of hospitals rated inadequate or requiring improvements in safety by the Care Quality Commission. It doesn't define all these as unsafe. The inspected hospitals aren't known to be representative of all hospitals in England.   health   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th Oct 2015   None
910   Under the last government, social welfare cases receiving legal aid fell from 470,000 to 53,000.   These figures are correct. Cases about community care, debt, employment, housing and welfare benefits that got publicly funded legal advice and assistance fell 89% from 2009/10 to 2013/14.   https://fullfact.org/law/far-fewer-social-welfare-cases-get-legal-aid/   These figures are correct. Cases about community care, debt, employment, housing and welfare benefits that got publicly funded legal advice and assistance fell 89% from 2009/10 to 2013/14.   law   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Oct 2015   None
911   The UK is making progress towards meeting its 2020 targets on renewable energy.   It has met its interim targets, but that doesn’t mean it will meet the target for 2020. Without further action from the government the target will be missed.   https://fullfact.org/energy-bill/uk-making-good-progress-towards-its-2020-renewables-target/   It has met its interim targets, but that doesn’t mean it will meet the target for 2020. Without further action from the government the target will be missed.   energy-bill   None   Laura O'Brien   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Mar 2016   None
912   Most secondary schools use teachers not trained in their subject   Two-thirds of people responding to a survey by a school and college leaders’ union said recruitment problems have led them to have subjects taught by non-specialists. We don’t know how representative that figure is of the experience of schools nationally. Official figures show that about one in six lessons in the key academic subjects in English secondary schools were being taught by teachers without a relevant post A level qualification in 2014. Around 24% of maths teachers and 21% of English teachers didn’t have a relevant post A level qualification in that year.   https://fullfact.org/education/do-most-secondary-schools-use-non-specialist-teachers/   Two-thirds of people responding to a survey by a school and college leaders’ union said recruitment problems have led them to have subjects taught by non-specialists. We don’t know how representative that figure is of the experience of schools nationally. Official figures show that about one in six lessons in the key academic subjects in English secondary schools were being taught by teachers without a relevant post A level qualification in 2014. Around 24% of maths teachers and 21% of English teachers didn’t have a relevant post A level qualification in that year.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Mar 2016   None
913   Spending on the main disability benefits will increase over the course of this parliament.   Spending on Disability Living Allowance, Personal Independence Payments and Attendance Allowance (the ‘main disability benefits’ this claim is referring to) is expected to rise slightly over this parliament, after rising prices are taken into account. It won’t rise by as much as it has been in recent years.   https://fullfact.org/economy/spending-disability-benefits-going-or-down/   Spending on Disability Living Allowance, Personal Independence Payments and Attendance Allowance (the ‘main disability benefits’ this claim is referring to) is expected to rise slightly over this parliament, after rising prices are taken into account. It won’t rise by as much as it has been in recent years.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   31st Mar 2016   None
916   The schools budget has been increased over the past few years.   The cash amount has risen, but that doesn’t take into account inflation or rising pupil numbers.   https://fullfact.org/education/school-spending-or-down/   The cash amount has risen, but that doesn’t take into account inflation or rising pupil numbers.   education   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Jul 2016   None
918   Londoners are set to get six times more funding for transport infrastructure per head than the North East and North West regions, and eight times that on offer in Yorkshire & the Humber.   These estimates are correct, using rough information from a government list of planned infrastructure projects. That information isn’t complete, and the comparison ignores funding which isn’t allocated to specific regions. If general funding was included, the regional differences are likely to be smaller.   https://fullfact.org/economy/regional-investment-transport/   These estimates are correct, using rough information from a government list of planned infrastructure projects. That information isn’t complete, and the comparison ignores funding which isn’t allocated to specific regions. If general funding was included, the regional differences are likely to be smaller.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Aug 2016   None
930   Under Labour the tax gap was falling by £1.5bn/year. Under the Conservatives it has been increasing by £1bn/year.   The numbers are accurate but very uncertain. The proportion of tax due but unpaid is lower under Labour but no longer falling.   https://fullfact.org/economy/whats-been-happening-tax-gap/   The numbers are accurate but very uncertain. The proportion of tax due but unpaid is lower under Labour but no longer falling.   economy   None   Artemis Photiadou, Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Apr 2015   None
932   Extending the grace period for the proposed early closure of the Renewables Obligation to onshore wind to include projects with planning applications in place, could mean funding being given to a further 7.1 gigawatts of projects.   Only 0.2 of the 7.1 gigawatts would be expected to qualify for the funding in the government's best estimate.   https://fullfact.org/economy/proposed-renewables-obligation-cut-how-much-onshore-wind-capacity-loses-out/   Only 0.2 of the 7.1 gigawatts would be expected to qualify for the funding in the government's best estimate.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Nov 2015   None
933   The saving to the public purse from closing the Renewables Obligation (RO) to onshore wind a year early is up to £270 million a year.   The government won't improve its finances by closing the RO early, as the scheme is paid for by energy suppliers and their consumers. £270 million is the government's upper estimate of how much the closure could save them.   https://fullfact.org/economy/what-effect-public-purse-would-closing-renewables-obligation-early-have/   The government won't improve its finances by closing the RO early, as the scheme is paid for by energy suppliers and their consumers. £270 million is the government's upper estimate of how much the closure could save them.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Dec 2015   None
937   The UK is 15th in the international educational league tables, behind Vietnam.   In 2015, the UK ranked 15th in the world for the performance of 15 year olds in science, behind Vietnam in 8th place. But we’re not necessarily as far behind Vietnam as this might suggest.   https://fullfact.org/education/uks-international-education-ranking/   In 2015, the UK ranked 15th in the world for the performance of 15 year olds in science, behind Vietnam in 8th place. But we’re not necessarily as far behind Vietnam as this might suggest.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Feb 2017   None
938   The NHS has had its lowest financial settlement than any time going back to 1948.   The decade from 2010 to 2020 will see the smallest annual increases in UK healthcare spending than any previous period, according to experts at The King’s Fund and Health Foundation.   https://fullfact.org/health/nhs-spending-lowest-financial-settlement-ever/   The decade from 2010 to 2020 will see the smallest annual increases in UK healthcare spending than any previous period, according to experts at The King’s Fund and Health Foundation.   health   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   10th Mar 2017   None
939   Spending on adult social care has been given a £2 billion boost.   Whether adult social care funding goes up or down depends on how councils use that funding boost. They could put it all into adult social care. Or they might use some of it to free up money for other services.   https://fullfact.org/health/trade-offs-local-councils-face-choices-about-adult-social-care-funding/   Whether adult social care funding goes up or down depends on how councils use that funding boost. They could put it all into adult social care. Or they might use some of it to free up money for other services.   health   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th Mar 2017   None
940   Chief executives at particular Welsh councils get paid about three times as much as MPs.   They get paid more, but not three times as much. The Chief Executive of Isle of Anglesey County Council gets paid £113,000 a year, compared to £76,000 for an MP. At Gwynedd it’s between £103,000 and £110,000.   https://fullfact.org/economy/public-sector-pay-bbcqt/   They get paid more, but not three times as much. The Chief Executive of Isle of Anglesey County Council gets paid £113,000 a year, compared to £76,000 for an MP. At Gwynedd it’s between £103,000 and £110,000.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Mar 2017   None
941   Theresa May negotiated the UK out of 100 EU justice and home affairs laws.   This is about right; David Cameron notified the EU of the decision to opt out of the laws, and Theresa May was involved in negotiations to opt back into 35 of them. But the right to opt out of the laws in the first place was negotiated by a previous government.   https://fullfact.org/europe/theresa-mays-eu-negotiating-experience/   This is about right; David Cameron notified the EU of the decision to opt out of the laws, and Theresa May was involved in negotiations to opt back into 35 of them. But the right to opt out of the laws in the first place was negotiated by a previous government.   europe   None   Full Fact team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Jun 2017   None
944   Self-employed people aren’t eligible for shared parental leave.   Correct.   https://fullfact.org/economy/shared-parental-leave-self-employed-people/   Correct.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Nov 2017   None
945   Cancer is on the rise.   There were around 300,000 diagnoses of cancer in England in 2016—excluding non-melanoma skin cancers—compared to around 250,000 a decade before. The age-standardised incidence rate has risen for women and fallen for men in that time.   https://fullfact.org/health/cancer-diabetes-mental-health-rise/   There were around 300,000 diagnoses of cancer in England in 2016—excluding non-melanoma skin cancers—compared to around 250,000 a decade before. The age-standardised incidence rate has risen for women and fallen for men in that time.   health   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Jun 2018   None
947   The majority of British Jews are Zionists.   A 2015 survey found about 3 in 5 British Jews identify as Zionists, though the term isn’t clearly defined. 9 in 10 British Jews support the right of Israel to exist as a Jewish state.   https://fullfact.org/news/are-majority-british-jews-zionists/   A 2015 survey found about 3 in 5 British Jews identify as Zionists, though the term isn’t clearly defined. 9 in 10 British Jews support the right of Israel to exist as a Jewish state.   news   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Sep 2018   None
961   Our railways cost 40% more to run than others in Europe.   Research carried out for the government has shown a 40% cost-efficiency gap between Britain and four European nations. But it's now quite dead.   https://fullfact.org/economy/britains-privatised-rail-40-too-expensive/   Research carried out for the government has shown a 40% cost-efficiency gap between Britain and four European nations. But it's now quite dead.   economy   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   12th Aug 2015   None
962   Sixth forms and further education colleges are better funded.   It depends how you interpret “better”.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-sixth-forms-and-further-education-colleges-better-funded/   It depends how you interpret “better”.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Mar 2016   None
963   Half of people in rural areas and many small businesses can’t get a decent broadband connection.   That’s fair according to Ofcom’s definition of a good broadband connection. It says just under half of rural properties (around 1.5 million) and many smaller businesses can’t access a good speed.   https://fullfact.org/economy/rural-properties-are-much-less-likely-have-good-broadband-connections/   That’s fair according to Ofcom’s definition of a good broadband connection. It says just under half of rural properties (around 1.5 million) and many smaller businesses can’t access a good speed.   economy   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Oct 2016   None
965   We were promised a ‘punishment budget’ before the referendum.   Sort of. Remain campaigners published a 7-page ‘Brexit Budget’ which gave rough, hypothetical figures for the kind of cuts that would be needed if the UK voted to leave the EU, the pre-referendum economic forecasts were correct and the government still wanted to run a balanced budget in 2020/21. It was presented by George Osborne, then Chancellor of the Exchequer.   https://fullfact.org/europe/false-claims-forecasts-eu-referendum/   Sort of. Remain campaigners published a 7-page ‘Brexit Budget’ which gave rough, hypothetical figures for the kind of cuts that would be needed if the UK voted to leave the EU, the pre-referendum economic forecasts were correct and the government still wanted to run a balanced budget in 2020/21. It was presented by George Osborne, then Chancellor of the Exchequer.   europe   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Dec 2016   None
966   University applications have fallen by 4%.   The number of applicants through UCAS to UK higher education institutions has gone down by 4% compared to last year.   https://fullfact.org/education/have-university-applicant-numbers-fallen-2017/   The number of applicants through UCAS to UK higher education institutions has gone down by 4% compared to last year.   education   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   14th Jul 2017   None
967   There were no psychiatric beds available overnight for NHS patients across England on Saturday 28 October 2017.   We don’t know how many beds were available as there are no published figures. NHS England says this is incorrect. Anecdotal evidence suggests there have been times when none of the correct type were available.   https://fullfact.org/health/were-no-psychiatric-beds-available-anywhere-england-weekend/   We don’t know how many beds were available as there are no published figures. NHS England says this is incorrect. Anecdotal evidence suggests there have been times when none of the correct type were available.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   31st Oct 2017   None
969   94% of small and medium-size businesses say the Government is ignoring their concerns about how the UK leaves the EU.   94% of 649 owner-managed firms told a survey the Government wasn't listening to their concerns about Brexit negotiations, or only occasionally listening. The survey wasn’t designed to be representative of all SMEs though.   https://fullfact.org/europe/small-businesses-and-brexit/   94% of 649 owner-managed firms told a survey the Government wasn't listening to their concerns about Brexit negotiations, or only occasionally listening. The survey wasn’t designed to be representative of all SMEs though.   europe   None   Hannah Phaup   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   6th Mar 2018   None
970   Up to 57,000 Commonwealth-born people who arrived in the UK before 1971 could lose their homes, jobs, benefits, NHS treatment, or be threatened with deportation.   This is the number of Commonwealth-born people living in the UK in 2017 who arrived before 1971, and self-report as not being a UK citizen. They have the right to remain in the UK indefinitely but some have recently had problems proving their eligibility. We don’t know how many have had such problems, and some who are UK citizens could also be affected.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/windrush-generation/   This is the number of Commonwealth-born people living in the UK in 2017 who arrived before 1971, and self-report as not being a UK citizen. They have the right to remain in the UK indefinitely but some have recently had problems proving their eligibility. We don’t know how many have had such problems, and some who are UK citizens could also be affected.   immigration   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   17th Apr 2018   None
971   There are 4,000 abortions a week in Britain.   There were around 202,000 recorded abortions in Britain in 2016. That’s around 4,000 a week on average.   https://fullfact.org/law/factchecking-campaigning-leaflets-abortion/   There were around 202,000 recorded abortions in Britain in 2016. That’s around 4,000 a week on average.   law   None   Full Fact team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Mar 2018   None
982   Poverty is being redefined to remove any reference to income.   A bill going through Parliament contains plans to replace existing income indicators of child poverty with ones that focus on worklessness and educational attainment. The annual statistics on the income measures will still be published but they won't be the government's main poverty indicators.   https://fullfact.org/economy/ask-full-fact-poverty-being-redefined-remove-any-reference-income/   A bill going through Parliament contains plans to replace existing income indicators of child poverty with ones that focus on worklessness and educational attainment. The annual statistics on the income measures will still be published but they won't be the government's main poverty indicators.   economy   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   22nd Dec 2015   None
989   80% of selective schools are rated as outstanding compared to 20% of all state schools. 99% of selective schools are rated good or outstanding.   This is correct. 82% of selective schools were rated outstanding as of August 2016, compared to just over 20% of all state schools. 99% of selective schools received the top two ratings compared to 88% of all schools.   https://fullfact.org/education/how-do-selective-school-ratings-compare/   This is correct. 82% of selective schools were rated outstanding as of August 2016, compared to just over 20% of all state schools. 99% of selective schools received the top two ratings compared to 88% of all schools.   education   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   4th Oct 2016   None
995   The Resolution Foundation brought out a report this week saying we were on course for the biggest increase in inequality since Thatcher.   That was its bottom-line judgement about income inequality. As the report itself says, this is only a projection. It’s based on assumptions about current trends in the economy, and the future of the economy is especially uncertain now the UK is leaving the EU.   https://fullfact.org/economy/income-inequality-resolution-foundation/   That was its bottom-line judgement about income inequality. As the report itself says, this is only a projection. It’s based on assumptions about current trends in the economy, and the future of the economy is especially uncertain now the UK is leaving the EU.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   3rd Feb 2017   None
1002   Rio 2016 was the UK's best overseas Olympics.   This is correct. The only times the UK has won more gold medals was in 1908 and 2012 when the games were held in London.   https://fullfact.org/news/olympic-games-factchecked/   This is correct. The only times the UK has won more gold medals was in 1908 and 2012 when the games were held in London.   news   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Aug 2016   None
1012   The percentage of state school students applying to university has fallen.   UCAS don't publish figures on this. The figures we do have may be affected by local authority led schools becoming academies.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-university-applications-falling-uk/   UCAS don't publish figures on this. The figures we do have may be affected by local authority led schools becoming academies.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th May 2017   None
1025   The European Union makes two thirds of UK law.   That's about right if you count EU regulations as part of 'UK law'. The EU influence on UK-only laws is about 13%. But this counting exercise doesn't tell us very much.   https://fullfact.org/europe/two-thirds-uk-law-made-eu/   That's about right if you count EU regulations as part of 'UK law'. The EU influence on UK-only laws is about 13%. But this counting exercise doesn't tell us very much.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Mar 2015   None
1029   The UK share of the vote in the EU Council of Ministers is 8%, down from 17% when we joined.   It has declined, but a new system based on population makes the UK's vote worth 13%. A lot of Council decisions are made by consensus after negotiation, so vote share doesn't neatly capture the UK's influence.   https://fullfact.org/europe/british-influence-eu-council-ministers/   It has declined, but a new system based on population makes the UK's vote worth 13%. A lot of Council decisions are made by consensus after negotiation, so vote share doesn't neatly capture the UK's influence.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Jan 2016   None
1030   Most students who immigrate to the UK return home after study.   The available evidence is contradictory. Most student immigrants come from outside the EU on a temporary visa and a minority still have the right to remain after a few years. But emigration figures suggest the number staying in the UK may be higher than this.   https://fullfact.org/immigration/how-many-international-students-leave-after-studying-uk/   The available evidence is contradictory. Most student immigrants come from outside the EU on a temporary visa and a minority still have the right to remain after a few years. But emigration figures suggest the number staying in the UK may be higher than this.   immigration   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Aug 2017   None
1032   The number of people from disadvantaged backgrounds going to university has gone down.   There are a number of ways to measure what a ‘disadvantaged pupil’ is, but on all UCAS measures young students from disadvantaged groups in England are more likely to go to university now than any other year on record. The picture may be different for other types of students, such as mature students or part-time students.   https://fullfact.org/education/young-peoples-participation-higher-education/   There are a number of ways to measure what a ‘disadvantaged pupil’ is, but on all UCAS measures young students from disadvantaged groups in England are more likely to go to university now than any other year on record. The picture may be different for other types of students, such as mature students or part-time students.   education   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th May 2017   None
1033   The government hasn’t delivered even a quarter of the childcare places they claimed they would.   This would have been correct based on old government policy, but the number of planned places has been reduced since then. The latest figures show the government has delivered just over half of the places it expects to.   https://fullfact.org/education/30-hours-free-childcare-only-quarter-places-delivered/   This would have been correct based on old government policy, but the number of planned places has been reduced since then. The latest figures show the government has delivered just over half of the places it expects to.   education   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Oct 2017   None
1035   Domestic abuse rates increase by 38% when England loses football matches.   A 2014 study found the number of domestic abuse incidents reported to police in Lancashire increased by 38% when England lost a match compared to when they weren’t playing. It was 26% higher if England won or there was a draw.   https://fullfact.org/crime/world-cup-domestic-abuse/   A 2014 study found the number of domestic abuse incidents reported to police in Lancashire increased by 38% when England lost a match compared to when they weren’t playing. It was 26% higher if England won or there was a draw.   crime   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Jun 2018   None
1049   Scrapping maintenance grants will price students from low income households out of university.   While at university they'll get more money than they did under the old system, and only students who go on to be high earners will pay back more.   https://fullfact.org/economy/ashes-ashes-grants-loans-how-scrapping-maintenance-grants-will-affect-students/   While at university they'll get more money than they did under the old system, and only students who go on to be high earners will pay back more.   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   13th Aug 2015   None
1057   The Conservatives are planning to sell off NHS property by implementing the Naylor Review.   The Naylor Review is about how efficiently the NHS uses its land and property. It says some should be sold to fund improvements to the rest. The Conservatives are backing the review's proposals.   https://fullfact.org/health/what-is-naylor-review/   The Naylor Review is about how efficiently the NHS uses its land and property. It says some should be sold to fund improvements to the rest. The Conservatives are backing the review's proposals.   health   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   5th Jun 2017   None
1058   Under Boris Johnson’s tenure as Mayor of London, the murder rate was cut by 50%.   Roughly correct. We only have figures for homicides, which include more than just murders. The homicide rate halved between 2007 and 2014, before ticking back up slightly.   https://fullfact.org/crime/what-happened-violent-crime-london-2008/   Roughly correct. We only have figures for homicides, which include more than just murders. The homicide rate halved between 2007 and 2014, before ticking back up slightly.   crime   None   Abbas Panjwani   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   26th Apr 2018   None
1059   Deaths rose by 650 above average during the UK heatwave   Correct, for 23 June to 13 July this year in England and Wales. The increase has been higher in previous years, and we won’t have a full picture until better statistics come out later in the year.  High temperatures have been linked to more deaths in the past.   https://fullfact.org/health/heatwave-how-many-deaths/   Correct, for 23 June to 13 July this year in England and Wales. The increase has been higher in previous years, and we won’t have a full picture until better statistics come out later in the year.  High temperatures have been linked to more deaths in the past.   health   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Aug 2018   None
1060   The police starting salary was £24,000 in 2010 and £23,000 in 2018.   These figures don’t account for inflation. In 2018 prices their starting salary has fallen from the equivalent of £27,400 in 2010 to around £23,300 in 2018.   https://fullfact.org/economy/pay-rises-how-much-do-nurses-police-teachers-and-mps-get-paid/   These figures don’t account for inflation. In 2018 prices their starting salary has fallen from the equivalent of £27,400 in 2010 to around £23,300 in 2018.   economy   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   7th Sep 2018   None
1061   The number of white people arrested for terror offences outstrips any other single ethnic group.   This is correct for the year to June 2018, although this is based on ethnicity as recorded by the arresting officer. The margin is small—38% were perceived to be white and 37% were thought to be Asian. 9% were recorded as black and 16% as ‘other’.   https://fullfact.org/crime/ethnic-groups-arrested-terrorism/   This is correct for the year to June 2018, although this is based on ethnicity as recorded by the arresting officer. The margin is small—38% were perceived to be white and 37% were thought to be Asian. 9% were recorded as black and 16% as ‘other’.   crime   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   24th Sep 2018   None
1065   NHS funding is at record levels.   Correct. NHS funding in the UK is at record levels, even adjusted for inflation.   https://fullfact.org/health/nhs-video-factchecked/   Correct. NHS funding in the UK is at record levels, even adjusted for inflation.   health   None   Full Fact Team   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   30th May 2017   None
1080   State school pupils are less likely to reach top professions than pupils from private schools.   Overall this is correct.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-state-school-pupils-less-likely-reach-top-jobs/   Overall this is correct.   education   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   2nd Aug 2016   None
1081   Between 13,000 and 125,000 operations will be cancelled as a result of upcoming junior doctors’ strikes.   The current estimate is 125,000 operations cancelled, this figure is based on the number of operations which were cancelled over two days during the last strike in April. However, these figures were calculated before the specific dates were announced and before the September strike was suspended   https://fullfact.org/health/125000-operations-predicted-be-cancelled/   The current estimate is 125,000 operations cancelled, this figure is based on the number of operations which were cancelled over two days during the last strike in April. However, these figures were calculated before the specific dates were announced and before the September strike was suspended   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th Sep 2016   None
1093   Spending on mental health went up by £575 million last year.   This refers to the increase in spending by Clinical Commissioning Groups, but doesn’t account for inflation. Factoring that in the increase was around £368 million. It’s not a complete picture of mental health spending because other money is spent by the NHS on specialised mental health services. The figures on this aren’t regularly published.   https://fullfact.org/health/nhs-spending-mental-health/   This refers to the increase in spending by Clinical Commissioning Groups, but doesn’t account for inflation. Factoring that in the increase was around £368 million. It’s not a complete picture of mental health spending because other money is spent by the NHS on specialised mental health services. The figures on this aren’t regularly published.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Dec 2017   None
1098   Thousands of people died within weeks of being found fit for work.   The figures show people who died within weeks of their claim ending, not being found fit for work. Many claims have ended because the claimant died   https://fullfact.org/economy/reporting-fit-work-deaths-isnt-fit-purpose/   The figures show people who died within weeks of their claim ending, not being found fit for work. Many claims have ended because the claimant died   economy   None   Sam Ashworth-Hayes   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   28th Aug 2015   None
1102   The average farmer made £28,300 in subsidies last year and £2,100 from agriculture. The average cereal farmer lost £9,500 on agriculture.   The basic point is correct. Last year farmers did make more from subsidies on average than from agriculture. Whether or not the exact figures are correct depends on whether you look at subsidies or all payments that farmers receive from government schemes.   https://fullfact.org/economy/farming-subsidies-uk/   The basic point is correct. Last year farmers did make more from subsidies on average than from agriculture. Whether or not the exact figures are correct depends on whether you look at subsidies or all payments that farmers receive from government schemes.   economy   None   Claire Milne and Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Aug 2016   None
1105   At 16 we’re free from parental control, we can leave home, we can start a family, we can get married, we can start work, we can pay taxes, we can join the forces.   Correct, although in some cases parental consent is still required for under-18s.   https://fullfact.org/law/legal-age-limits/   Correct, although in some cases parental consent is still required for under-18s.   law   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Feb 2018   None
1115   The government is using an arcane loophole to bypass the House of Commons to force through changes to maintenance grants for students.   The way in which proposals are being introduced isn't unusual. The debate is over whether the government should have made the time for MPs to debate the changes in the chamber of the House of Commons following opposition from the Labour Party.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-changes-maintenance-grants-being-made-through-arcane-loophole/   The way in which proposals are being introduced isn't unusual. The debate is over whether the government should have made the time for MPs to debate the changes in the chamber of the House of Commons following opposition from the Labour Party.   education   None   Amy Sippitt   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Jan 2016   None
1116   Leaving Euratom will not affect the UK’s ability to import medical radioisotopes - which are used to diagnose and treat certain kinds of cancer.   This isn’t certain, and will depend on what future arrangements are negotiated. The UK may find it harder to guarantee a supply after leaving.   https://fullfact.org/europe/could-leaving-european-nuclear-club-put-cancer-patients-risk/   This isn’t certain, and will depend on what future arrangements are negotiated. The UK may find it harder to guarantee a supply after leaving.   europe   None   Joseph O'Leary   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   18th Jul 2017   None
1117   There are fewer doctors and nurses employed in mental health.   There are around 5,000 fewer nurses specialising mental health between August 2010 and 2017. The number of fully trained doctors specialising in psychiatry and psychotherapy has also gone down by 105 over the same time, but if you count junior doctors the number has increased.   https://fullfact.org/health/mental-health-staff-nhs/   There are around 5,000 fewer nurses specialising mental health between August 2010 and 2017. The number of fully trained doctors specialising in psychiatry and psychotherapy has also gone down by 105 over the same time, but if you count junior doctors the number has increased.   health   None   Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   19th Dec 2017   None
1126   The EU has ordered organic farmers to treat sick animals with homeopathy in a new directive.   EU legislation promotes homeopathy in organic farming if it's an effective treatment. The law isn't particularly new, as a revised version of the claim makes clear.   https://fullfact.org/europe/eu-homeopathy-and-norwegian-vets/   EU legislation promotes homeopathy in organic farming if it's an effective treatment. The law isn't particularly new, as a revised version of the claim makes clear.   europe   None   Conor James McKinney   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   1st Jun 2015   None
1129   The state is removing more children from their families than at any time since the 1980s.   This is correct as far as available figures show. More children are becoming ‘looked after’ by a local authority than at any time since the mid-1980s, and increasing numbers are being adopted or placed with a special guardian. These figures don’t perfectly reflect the numbers of children who are away from their original parents.   https://fullfact.org/education/are-more-children-being-taken-from-their-families/   This is correct as far as available figures show. More children are becoming ‘looked after’ by a local authority than at any time since the mid-1980s, and increasing numbers are being adopted or placed with a special guardian. These figures don’t perfectly reflect the numbers of children who are away from their original parents.   education   None   Grace Rahman   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   29th Mar 2018   None
1137   Theresa May refuses to allow the very best international doctors to come here to care for our sick.   The government limits the number of Tier 2 visas it grants each month. These are what non-EEA medical staff need to work in the UK. Nurses get priority access to these visas, but there are reports of some doctors being refused them due to government caps.   https://fullfact.org/health/nhs-vacancies/   The government limits the number of Tier 2 visas it grants each month. These are what non-EEA medical staff need to work in the UK. Nurses get priority access to these visas, but there are reports of some doctors being refused them due to government caps.   health   None   Joël Reland and Claire Milne   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   9th May 2018   None
1140   Allegations of people pretending to be other people to steal their votes doubled nationally between 2014 and 2016.   Allegations of personation at polling stations did double from 21 in 2014, to 45 in 2016. The UK statistics Authority said that isolating 2014 to 2016 is “not typical of the fuller time series”.  The number of allegations fell again to 28 in 2017 and there were 22 a year on average since 2010.   https://fullfact.org/crime/voter-id-scheme/   Allegations of personation at polling stations did double from 21 in 2014, to 45 in 2016. The UK statistics Authority said that isolating 2014 to 2016 is “not typical of the fuller time series”.  The number of allegations fell again to 28 in 2017 and there were 22 a year on average since 2010.   crime   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   27th Jul 2018   None
1150   Delaying a decision about which runway to build costs the UK economy £6 million every day.   Whether or not you agree that a delay in the decision is imposing unnecessary costs on the UK economy, this probably isn’t the best estimate of what those costs are. Any precise figure will be uncertain.   https://fullfact.org/economy/does-delaying-airport-expansion-cost-us-6-million-day/   Whether or not you agree that a delay in the decision is imposing unnecessary costs on the UK economy, this probably isn’t the best estimate of what those costs are. Any precise figure will be uncertain.   economy   None   Claire Milne and Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   8th Aug 2016   None
1158   Only 4% of non-EU goods get checked by the UK and only one per cent by Ireland.   Correct for the UK. The best evidence we’ve seen for Ireland is that it was 6% in 2016.   https://fullfact.org/europe/irish-border-trade-checks/   Correct for the UK. The best evidence we’ve seen for Ireland is that it was 6% in 2016.   europe   None   Joël Reland   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   11th Sep 2018   None
1167   At least a large part of growth in employment has been driven by an increase in insecure, precarious work.   That doesn’t seem to be the case for the UK jobs market overall. The picture for specific industries, regions and groups might be different and statistics will only ever give a limited insight into questions about job quality.   https://fullfact.org/economy/employment-growth-insecure-precarious-work/   That doesn’t seem to be the case for the UK jobs market overall. The picture for specific industries, regions and groups might be different and statistics will only ever give a limited insight into questions about job quality.   economy   None   Richard Braham   None   Full Fact - The UK’s independent factchecking charity   15th May 2017   None