claim_id	claim	label	claim_url	reason	categories	speaker	checker	tags	article_title	publish_date	claim_date
1	While plaintiff offered evidence that consumption of coffee increases the risk of harm to the fetus, to infants, to children and to adults, defendants’ medical and epidemiology experts testified that they had no opinion on causation.	Acrylamide isn’t good for you but the amount present in coffee makes no observable contribution to cancer risk. There is no strong evidence for a link between drinking coffee and developing cancer. While there have been occasional studies suggesting an increased risk in bladder cancer, overall the vast majority of rigorous studies suggest that if coffee drinking has any effect at all it actually offers a mild protective effect from some cancer types.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-coffee-cause-cancer-95387	None	Health + Medicine	California Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle, proposed ruling on Council for Education and Research on Toxics vs. Starbucks Corporation et al, March 28 2018.	Simon Baker	['Cancer', 'Coffee', 'Cancer risk', 'Fact Check UK', 'carcinogens']	Fact Check: does coffee cause cancer?	April 23, 2018	None
2	I think if she did ask for a vote then she would win it but I don’t think she needs to ask for it, no … Legally the crown perogative allows the government to take military action without parliament … The idea that parliament has to vote is a new one. Politically it may make sense but she doesn’t need to have it.	In strict legal terms, the statement is correct. The only likely negative consequences for taking military action in Syria without first seeking express approval from the Commons would be political in nature. Yet, under the UK system, an action may be lawful but at the same time unconstitutional, that is to say in violation of a convention. Arguably, a convention exists in this area. However, as the statement correctly argues, it is “new”, with its earliest origins lying in 2003. It remains loosely defined and open to interpretation, though nonetheless of immense significance to the conduct of parliamentary government.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-the-uk-government-need-parliaments-approval-for-military-intervention-in-syria-95003	None	Politics + Society	Tom Tugendhat, Conservative MP and chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee, when asked if the prime minister, Theresa May, would need approval from parliament for military intervention in Syria, on BBC Radio 4 on April 12.	Andrew Blick	['Middle East', 'Syria', 'UK politics', 'International relations', 'Military intervention', 'Bashar al-Assad', 'Fact Check UK', 'UK military']	Fact Check: does the UK government need parliament’s approval for military intervention in Syria?	April 13, 2018	None
3	We have put extra funding in. There are more beds available across the system, we’ve reduced the number of delayed discharges of elderly people who would otherwise have been in NHS beds rather than in social care.	May’s statement is not supported by the currently available data. The total number of available beds actually reduced compared to the same period in 2016. While there was indeed a reduction in bed blocking, this remains well above the long-term trends.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-there-more-beds-available-across-the-nhs-89664	None	Health + Medicine	British prime minister, Theresa May, in comments to the BBC on January 3.	Katja Grasic	['Health', 'NHS', 'Theresa May', 'Fact Check UK', 'Hospital beds']	Fact Check: are there more beds available across the NHS?	January 8, 2018	None
4	When you include those centrally funded and locally delivered projects, this government is spending more per head on transport in the northwest than we are in the southeast.	It might come as a surprise for those in the northwest and Yorkshire to hear that they get about the same amount of transport spending (or more) than the southeast, but at the moment it is technically true. The northeast, meanwhile, remains the poor relation in every measurement of spending. But these simple facts don’t take account of the much higher spending in London or the very different circumstances by which this money is allocated.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-the-north-of-england-now-get-as-much-transport-spending-as-the-south-88275	None	Business + Economy	Chris Grayling, Sectary of State for Transport, 21 September 2017	Colin Bamford	['Transport', 'Infrastructure', 'Public transport', 'Fact Check UK', 'Transport policy', 'Transport funding', 'Transport planning', 'infrastructure spending']	Fact Check: does the north of England now get as much transport spending as the south?	December 5, 2017	None
5	The royals draw millions of tourists every year.	There is an absence of data as to whether tourists go to the UK specifically because of the royal family. However, while tourists might not be primarily attracted to the UK solely by the monarchy, the spectacle of royal events and access to parts of the royal estate across the UK enables VisitBritain and other national tourism agencies to build on Britain’s tourism appeal which blends heritage, pageantry and the contemporary. In this way, the relationship between royalty and tourism has an important economic and destination marketing dimension.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-do-tourists-visit-britain-because-of-the-royal-family-88335	None	Politics + Society	The Daily Mail, November 20, 2017.	Claire Haven-Tang	['Tourism', 'Monarchy', 'Royal Family', 'Fact Check UK', 'British monarchy']	Fact Check: do tourists visit Britain because of the royal family?	December 1, 2017	None
6	The safety of the public was paramount and therefore once the lynx had strayed over to a populated area of the community it was necessary to act decisively.	The council and local police made the right call. Human life has to come first. Every effort had been made to recapture the animal, and there was nothing more that could have been done.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-was-it-right-to-kill-lilith-the-escaped-lynx-87543	None	Environment + Energy	Statement from Ceredigion County Council on October 10, 2017.	Samantha Ward	['Zoos', 'Animal law', 'public safety', 'Animals in captivity', 'Fact Check UK', 'Captive wildlife']	Fact Check: was it right to kill Lilith the escaped lynx?	November 15, 2017	None
7	Freezing eggs is extremely unsuccessful. Although it’s never admitted, it is true from the national statistics, how poor the chances of pregnancy are afterwards.	So Robert Winston is right, in a sense, but, as always, there is more to the story.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-freezing-human-eggs-really-extremely-unsuccessful-86729	None	Health + Medicine	Lord Robert Winston, speaking on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on November 1.	John B Appleby	['IVF', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: Is freezing human eggs really ‘extremely unsuccessful’?	November 9, 2017	None
8	There are probably over a million foreigners here illegally at the moment. There’s a large number, so no one could ever remove those really.	Ultimately there is very little solid evidence on irregular immigration into the UK and so it would be impossible to verify Wood’s claim. The most authoritative research on different migrant populations is usually derived from ten-yearly census data. This can throw up surprising things, such as in 2001 when the census revealed there were a million fewer people living in the country than previously thought.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-there-over-a-million-foreigners-living-illegally-in-britain-85615	None	Politics + Society	David Wood, former director general of immigration enforcement, Home Office, speaking to MPs on the Home Affairs Select Committee on October 10.	Alex Balch	['Immigration', 'Fact Check UK', 'British immigration policy', 'Hostile environment']	Fact Check: are there over a million foreigners living illegally in Britain?	October 17, 2017	None
9	When I was business secretary there were up to nine studies that we looked at that took in all the academic evidence. It showed that immigration had very little impact on wages or employment. But this was suppressed by the Home Office under Theresa May, because the results were inconvenient.	Vince Cable’s understanding of the preponderance of academic evidence on the labour market effects of immigration is accurate. There is little persuasive evidence that immigration has substantial harmful effects on average UK wages or employment. Damian Green is correct to identify effects on the least well paid as being of greatest concern but evidence suggests these effects are not large.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-immigration-have-an-impact-on-wages-or-employment-83666	None	Politics + Society	Vince Cable, leader of the Liberal Democrats, in a statement on September 6.	Ian Preston	['Immigration', 'Employment', 'Wages', 'Jobs', 'Liberal Democrats', 'Vince Cable', 'Fact Check UK', 'Conservatives', 'Low wages']	Fact Check: does immigration have an impact on wages or employment?	September 13, 2017	None
10	The single market is dependent on membership of the EU. What we’ve said all along is that we want a tariff free trade access to the European market and a partnership with Europe in the future.	Corbyn’s assertion that single market access depends on EU membership is factually incorrect. His Brexit-requires-single-market-exit philosophy also involves several dubious assumptions.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-being-in-the-single-market-dependent-on-membership-of-the-eu-81530	None	Politics + Society	Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn speaking to the BBC’s Andrew Marr show on July 23.	Gavin Barrett	['EU', 'Labour Party', 'Brexit', 'Fact Check UK', 'Jeremy Corbyn', 'European single market', 'Single Market', 'Brexit negotiations']	Fact Check: is being in the single market dependent on membership of the EU?	July 26, 2017	None
11	The Scottish and Welsh governments cannot recommend that legislative consent is given to the bill as it currently stands.	The devolved legislatures cannot block the bill but the need for their consent means that they have a considerable degree of leverage – much more so than if Theresa May had secured a landslide majority in the June election. It is likely the devolved nations will seek to exploit this leverage to the full.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-can-wales-and-scotland-block-the-brexit-repeal-bill-81041	None	Politics + Society	Nicola Sturgeon, first minister of Scotland and Carwyn Jones, first minister of Wales, in a joint statement published in reaction to the publication of the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill on July 13, formerly known as the “Great Repeal Bill”.	Alan Page	['UK Supreme Court', 'Devolution', 'Wales', 'Brexit', 'Scottish devolution', 'Fact Check UK', 'Welsh devolution', 'Repeal Bill']	Fact Check: can Wales and Scotland block the Brexit repeal bill?	July 19, 2017	None
12	So while Matthew’s report is clear that many workers value the flexibility that zero-hours contracts offer them, and that banning such contracts altogether would harm more people than it would help, it is important that we continue to ensure that employers do not use these contracts to exploit people.	In the absence of evidence that would enable us to more accurately assess the potential positive and negative impacts of a ban on zero-hours contracts, the claim that a ban would hurt many more people than it would help surely amounts to speculation rather than hard fact.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-would-banning-zero-hours-contracts-harm-more-people-than-it-would-help-80933	None	Business + Economy	Theresa May, speaking at the launch of a report by Matthew Taylor on working practices in the UK on July 11.	Jason Heyes	['Work', 'Employment', 'Future of work', 'Theresa May', 'Labour Force', 'Employment law', 'Zero-hour contracts', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: would banning zero-hours contracts harm more people than it would help?	July 17, 2017	None
14	My understanding is that the cladding in question, this flammable cladding which is banned in Europe and the US, is also banned here.	Hammond’s claim that the type of cladding used on Grenfell Tower is banned in the UK is nearly correct because of the less well-known Approved Document 7. But neither this document, nor Building Regulation B specifically bans the use of PE core ACM panels.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-the-type-of-cladding-used-on-grenfell-tower-actually-banned-in-britain-79803	None	Science + Technology	Philip Hammond, the UK chancellor of the exchequer, speaking about the Grenfell Tower fire on the BBC’s Andrew Marr show on June 18.	Stephen Ledbetter	['Fire', 'Social housing', 'Fact Check UK', 'Grenfell Tower']	Fact Check: is the type of cladding used on Grenfell Tower actually banned in Britain?	June 26, 2017	None
15	We are continuing to act, when necessary, against unfair trading conditions in the steel sector, and against foreign dumping.	In short, Chinese steel may not possess a “natural” cost advantage, but does operate at artificially depressed costs levels. In other words, China is dumping steel.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-china-dumping-steel-76916	None	Business + Economy	European Union Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem speaks after the EU introduced new duties on steel products from China on Friday, June 9.	Ian Greenwood	['China', 'Commodities', 'UK', 'Trade', 'WTO', 'Europe', 'Steel', 'Protectionism', 'EU', 'Fact check', 'international trade', 'Fact Check UK', 'Commodity prices', 'Steel industry']	Fact Check: is China dumping steel?	June 14, 2017	None
16	We need to get the Muslim community itself to sign up to the Prevent programme. Only one out of eight referrals to Prevent come from within the Muslim community.	The statistics quoted by Nuttall are incorrect, misleading and divisive. By claiming that Muslims are not doing enough he implies that the Muslim population knows more than they are letting on and are able to do something about it. This is not an internal problem for Muslims alone. Placing the responsibility of reporting suspicion on the Muslim population demonises them and makes them the only actors responsible for stopping future attacks.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-only-one-in-eight-counter-terrorism-referrals-to-prevent-made-by-muslims-78781	None	Politics + Society	Paul Nuttall, leader of UKIP, speaking during the BBC Election Debate on May 31.	Sameera M. Khalfey	['Counter-terrorism', 'UKIP', 'Prevent strategy', 'Fact Check UK', 'Paul Nuttall', 'Counter-terrorism strategy', 'Muslim community', 'Channel programme', 'Counter-extremism']	Fact Check: are only one in eight counter-terrorism referrals to Prevent made by Muslims?	June 7, 2017	None
18	In counter-terrorism policing, we have protected those budgets and we’re currently protecting police budgets.	May is correct to say that counter-terrorism budgets have been protected – since November 2015 – but this includes the security service not merely the police service. The police endured successive reductions in budgets after 2010, which she oversaw as home secretary. Remember that between July 2011 and August 2014 the threat level was set at “moderate” and counter-terrorism policing did not have the profile it does currently. May’s agenda during this time was to impose sequential cuts to funding and impose changes to working practices, the fruits of which are now being witnessed in neighbourhoods.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-have-the-conservatives-protected-police-and-counter-terrorism-budgets-78782	None	Politics + Society	Theresa May, the Conservative prime minister, during the Sky/Channel 4 election interview on May 29.	Peter Williams	['Policing', 'Terrorism', 'Counter-terrorism', 'UK police', 'Theresa May', 'Fact Check UK', 'Conservatives']	Fact Check: have the Conservatives protected police and counter-terrorism budgets?	June 5, 2017	None
19	One million police hours fighting a cannabis market that is out of control. Time to regulate it.	The police spent nearly a million hours fighting cannabis in 2015, on the assumption that cannabis supply caseloads accounted for 84% of all Class B drug offences. A regulated and licensed cannabis market will definitely release police time with regards to enforcing possession of low potency cannabis.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-do-the-police-spend-over-a-million-hours-a-year-fighting-cannabis-77819	None	Politics + Society	Nick Clegg, former Liberal Democrat leader, commenting on Twitter on May 15 on the party’s election pledge to legalise cannabis.	Andromachi Tseloni	['Policing', 'Police', 'Drugs', 'Cannabis', 'Drug policy', 'Drug legalisation', 'Drug prohibition', 'Fact check', 'Liberal Democrats', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: do the police spend over a million hours a year fighting cannabis?	May 24, 2017	None
20	When people come to look at this decision on June 8, they will have a choice between a Conservative party that has always been a low-tax party … and a Labour party that is about raising taxes, that is about higher taxes for the future.	It is, in the end, broadly fair for Theresa May to say that the Conservative party, both historically, and in recent times, has been inclined to somewhat lower spending, and so levels of tax than Labour, and to a lesser extent the Liberal Democrats. But it is also fair to say the Conservatives tend to overplay the extent of this difference. The exclusive focus on tax is also a bit like looking at only one dimension in isolation of a three-dimensional, interconnected policy challenge. The other dimensions are the need for well-funded public services, which excessive tax cuts can undermine, and economic growth, without which tax receipts fall, and which is arguably left less certain in the context of Brexit.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-have-the-conservatives-always-been-the-low-tax-party-77742	None	Business + Economy	Theresa May, Conservative prime minister, in an interview with the BBC’s Andrew Marr on April 30. May repeated the claim during her press conference to launch the Conservative party manifesto on May 18.	Jeremy Nutall	['Labour', 'Taxation', 'Theresa May', 'Income tax', 'Fact Check UK', 'VAT', 'Conservatives']	Fact Check: have the Conservatives always been the low-tax party?	May 22, 2017	None
22	The plans will be funded from the £19.4 billion that will be raised by reversing the Conservative Party’s cuts to corporation tax.	While Labour claims that the Treasury will have an additional £19.4 billion to spend by increasing corporation tax to 26% by 2022 makes statistical sense, these headline numbers could only bear fruit if companies don’t change their behaviour and there is no impact on other taxes. History teaches us that these are large assumptions to make, and so there can be no guarantee over future levels of corporation tax receipts.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-could-labour-raise-19-4-billion-by-reversing-conservative-corporation-tax-cuts-77533	None	Business + Economy	A Labour party press release on May 9, 2017, detailing how the party would fund its plans to increase school spending.	Gavin Midgley	['Tax', 'Labour Party', 'Companies', 'Fact Check UK', 'Corporation tax', 'UK election 2017']	Fact Check: could Labour raise £19.4 billion by reversing Conservative corporation tax cuts?	May 17, 2017	None
23	Since I’ve been health secretary we’ve got 6,500 more doctors, we’ve got 15,000 more nurses.	Jeremy Hunt’s claim about the increase in the number of doctors and nurses is true – but the increase still leaves the NHS short staffed.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-there-6-500-more-doctors-and-15-000-more-nurses-since-jeremy-hunt-became-health-secretary-77336	None	Health + Medicine	Jeremy Hunt, health secretary, speaking on the BBC’s Andrew Marr show on May 7.	Andrew Street	['Doctors', 'Jeremy Hunt', 'NHS', 'nurses', 'Fact Check UK', 'Conservatives', 'UK election 2017']	Fact Check: are there 6,500 more doctors and 15,000 more nurses since Jeremy Hunt became health secretary?	May 11, 2017	None
24	We wanted to see more competition. We wanted to see more people able to switch between energy users [sic], that, over the last three or four years has not happened. This is a market that is not working perfectly and therefore we are intervening to make markets work better.	Fallon’s claim that people aren’t switching enough is wrong on the basis of the most up-to-date figures. Energy markets aren’t perfect, but intervening to cap energy prices and encourage switching are like rearranging the deckchairs on the Titanic.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-fewer-people-switching-gas-or-electricity-company-76716	None	Politics + Society	Michael Fallon, defence secretary and former energy minister, speaking on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme, on April 24	Bridget Woodman	['Electricity', 'Energy', 'Gas', 'Energy prices', 'Ofgem', 'Fact Check UK', 'Big six energy companies', 'Conservatives', 'UK election 2017']	Fact Check: are fewer people switching gas or electricity company?	May 8, 2017	None
25	The level of funding going into schools is at record levels.	Theresa May’s claim is misleading because it omits important information, particularly details on “per pupil spending” which is the key figure here. When you look at the “per pupil” figures, it is clear to see that rather than being at the “highest levels”, school funding per pupil has been constant in the last few years. Research has also shown that “per pupil spending” is projected to fall dramatically in the coming years – which could have a direct impact on school budgets and pupil performance.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-education-spending-at-the-highest-level-on-record-76610	None	Education	Prime Minister Theresa May in an interview with Andrew Marr on the BBC on April 30, 2017.	Sandra McNally	['Education', 'Schools', 'England', 'School funding', 'Students', 'Funding', 'Pupils', 'Fact Check UK', 'School budgets', 'Schools UK', 'Education spending']	Fact Check: is education spending at the highest level on record?	May 4, 2017	None
26	The science now tells us that diesel vehicles cause more than four times the pollution than petrol cars.	For most cars built over the past 20 years that may still be in use, petrol is likely to be less polluting overall than diesel. Petrol cars also require less maintenance to keep them performing at that level. But new, well maintained diesel cars, built to the latest standards have similar emissions to new petrol vehicles.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-diesel-cars-really-more-polluting-than-petrol-cars-76241	None	Environment + Energy	Sadiq Khan, Mayor of London	Paul Nieuwenhuis	['Emissions', 'Carbon emissions', 'Diesel', 'Transport emissions', 'petrol', 'Emissions targets', 'Fact Check UK', 'Vehicle emissions', 'Gasoline']	Fact Check: are diesel cars really more polluting than petrol cars?	May 2, 2017	None
27	I’m angry and fed up with the way in which six million people earn less than the living wage.	Given ONS earnings projections, it would be more accurate for Jeremy Corbyn and others to refer to the number of employee jobs (rather than people) paid below the RLW. The latest available data indicates that 5.4m people with one job were earning less than the RLW in 2014. That said, in April 2016, 6.22m employee jobs were paid below the RLW, continuing a rising trend in recent years. So while Corbyn’s statement is somewhat misleading, it is true in essence.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-do-six-million-people-earn-less-than-the-living-wage-76626	None	Business + Economy	Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the Labour Party, interviewed on the BBC’s Andrew Marr show on April 23	Tony Dobbins	['Wages', 'Jobs', 'Labour Party', 'Living Wage', 'Fact Check UK', 'Jeremy Corbyn', 'National Living Wage', 'Low wages', 'UK election 2017']	Fact Check: do six million people earn less than the living wage?	April 27, 2017	None
30	The EU has been a disaster for jobs. Only Antarctica has lower economic growth.	Growth in the European Union remains weak – but this is true across developed economies and it is not the worst performing area in the world. British growth is relatively high by developed country standards, but its recovery since the 2008 financial crisis has been weak. Antarctica doesn’t have an economy so it doesn’t even figure.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-only-the-economy-of-antarctica-grow-slower-than-the-eus-61235	None	Business + Economy	A tweet from the Vote Leave campaign on June 16.	Jonathan Perraton	['Antarctica', 'EU referendum', 'Fact Check UK', 'EU Fact Check', 'Vote Leave']	Fact Check: does only the economy of Antarctica grow slower than the EU’s?	June 21, 2016	None
31	President Putin would shed no tears if Britain left the European Union. He would see Brexit as a sign of our weakness and the weakness of European solidarity at the very moment we need to maintain our collective strength.	While there might be some circumstantial reasons for Russian leadership to welcome a Brexit over the short term, neither Putin nor other high ranking Russian officials have ever said anything on this subject to suggest they actually support Brexit. In fact, there are many reasons for Putin to wish that dangers to the EU from a possible Brexit never materialise.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-vladimir-putin-really-want-a-brexit-from-the-european-union-60831	None	Politics + Society	Hilary Benn, Labour’s shadow foreign secretary, speaking in February 2016.	Alexander Titov	['Russia', 'EU referendum', 'Ukraine', 'ukraine, russia, eu,', 'Brexit', 'Fact Check UK', 'EU Fact Check']	Fact Check: does Vladimir Putin really want a Brexit from the European Union?	June 15, 2016	None
32	Independent poll: 89% of businesses back staying in Europe.	It appears misleading for the Remain side to be using the COBCOE survey, though business surveys do generally lean towards the same point of view. Bigger businesses are pro-Remain – unless their sales are primarily either global or UK-focused – while small and medium-sized businesses trading predominantly at home take a different view.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-do-89-of-businesses-really-support-remain-60897	None	Brexit	Britain Stronger in Europe campaign claim	Brad MacKay	['Scotland', 'EU referendum', 'Polling', 'Brexit', 'CBI', 'indyref', 'Richard Branson', 'Fact Check UK', 'EU Fact Check', 'Remain', 'Leave', 'Britain Stronger in Europe', 'EUref', 'Business attitudes']	Fact Check: do 89% of businesses really support Remain?	June 14, 2016	None
33	If we remain in the EU, if we have uncontrolled migration year after year after year after year, you will find it harder to get a home of your own.	The ability of young people to get on the housing ladder has almost nothing to do with whether or not we are members of the EU. By using the issue of housing in the EU referendum campaign, both sides are missing the point.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-would-brexit-help-or-hinder-young-people-who-want-to-buy-a-house-60819	None	Business + Economy	Liam Fox MP, former defence secretary, and Vote Leave campaigner speaking on June 2.	Paul Cheshire	['Housing', 'House prices', 'housing market', 'EU referendum', 'Brexit', 'Fact Check UK', 'UK housing', 'EU Fact Check']	Fact Check: would Brexit help or hinder young people who want to buy a house?	June 12, 2016	None
39	Official figures for eastern European net migration could have been underestimated by more than 50,000 a year in each of the last five years.	The veracity of Migration Watch’s headline finding depends on levels of short-term immigration from the EU during the period in question and the extent of sampling errors through the IPS. If the former have risen recently, then the under-estimation could be less significant than Migration Watch suggests.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-eastern-european-migration-to-the-uk-been-underestimated-58608	None	Politics + Society	Migration Watch, in a recent analysis.	Alex Balch	['Immigration', 'Migration', 'European Union', 'Europe', 'EU referendum', 'Eastern Europe', 'Fact Check UK', 'EU Fact Check']	Fact Check: has eastern European migration to the UK been underestimated?	May 10, 2016	None
40	The UK has never been on the winning side when we have challenged the commission in a vote in the council.	We can conclude that the UK is clearly an assertive actor in the EU arena, and that UK government ministers have sometimes been outvoted when negotiating EU laws in the EU Council. Nevertheless, in terms of the total volume of legislation passed, the proportion of times the UK government has been on the “losing side” is tiny.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-britain-get-its-way-at-the-european-top-table-58610	None	Politics + Society	Chris Grayling, leader of the House of Commons and Vote Leave campaigner, in a speech on March 10.	Sara Hagemann	['European Union', 'Chris Grayling', 'Alan Johnson', 'Fact Check UK', 'EU Fact Check']	Fact Check: does Britain get its way at the European top table?	May 9, 2016	None
46	when immigration is too high, when the pace of change is too fast, it’s impossible to build a cohesive society. It’s difficult for schools and hospitals and core infrastructure like housing and transport to cope.	It is true that the labour market impacts of immigration on British-born workers are plausibly close to zero – but that contradicts claims made elsewhere in the home secretary’s speech. Fiscal effects, on the other hand, at least in the short term, are not close to zero but positive.   A full assessment of economic arguments for immigration would have to go beyond these effects.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-there-zero-economic-benefit-from-high-immigration-48704	None	Business + Economy	Theresa May, home secretary, speaking at the Conservative Party Conference on October 6, 2015	Ian Preston	['Immigration', 'Conservative Party', 'Theresa May', 'UK migration', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: is there zero economic benefit from high immigration?	October 7, 2015	None
47	Those with the broadest shoulders are bearing the greatest burden.	The chancellor’s claim about the broadest shoulders appears to rest on the slim foundations of selective and misleading statistics. A budget briefing by the Institute of Fiscal Studies has presented a more representative picture:	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-those-with-the-broadest-shoulders-bearing-the-greatest-burden-44487	None	Business + Economy	George Osborne, chancellor of the exchequer, in his budget speech on July 8.	Michael Barrow	['Tax', 'Welfare', 'George Osborne', 'Benefits', 'redistribution', 'child poverty', 'Income distribution', 'Fact Check UK', 'July Budget 2015']	Fact Check: are those with the broadest shoulders bearing the greatest burden?	July 10, 2015	None
48	There’s a deliberate target, for no matter what your behaviour, you will get sanctioned by the job centre. You don’t then find out about it until you go to the hole in the wall in the bank … to get your money out. You go there, you get no money, you go to a high street money lender that you can’t afford, or you go to a food bank because you can’t feed your kids. It’s utterly unacceptable.	Jim Murphy was arguably somewhat disingenuous in implying that there is a target for the number of sanctions made by job centres. However, there is some evidence that the publication of statistics on sanctions, together with a pressure to reduce welfare spending, creates the sense among advisers that there is an implicit target. Furthermore, the JCP performance framework may create perverse incentives for benefit off-flow, partly induced by sanctions, to be perceived as a positive outcome.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-do-job-centres-have-a-target-for-benefit-sanctions-41212	None	Politics + Society	Jim Murphy, Labour leader in Scotland, BBC Scottish Leaders Debate.	David Eiser	['Unemployment', 'Labour', 'Election factcheck', 'joblessness', 'Welfare reform', 'Benefits', 'Jim Murphy', 'Scottish Labour', 'Fact Check UK', 'Ruth Davidson']	Fact Check: do job centres have a target for ‘benefit sanctions’?	May 6, 2015	None
49	We would be substantially better off not being in the EU because the opportunity cost of us not being able to make our own trade deals with the emerging economies of the world is holding back British business. In terms of trade, the EU is now a millstone around our neck.	The economic concept of opportunity cost puts a value on one thing by comparing it with the next best alternative. Nigel Farage claims that EU membership harms UK trade. Yet our trade with non-EU countries continues to grow strongly, and the World Bank and World Economic Forum rate our and other EU countries’ economies very favourably. Despite this, we are under-performing on exports to fast-growing emerging countries – when compared with other EU countries. Farage favours the UK taking on board the entire costs of trade negotiations, for uncertain outcomes – but outcomes which are arguably likely to be less beneficial than doing so collectively in the EU.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-would-the-uk-be-better-off-leaving-the-eu-41225	None	Business + Economy	Jim Rollo	Robert Ackrill	['Trade', 'European Union', 'UKIP', 'Nigel Farage', 'Election factcheck', 'Brexit', 'Fact Check UK', 'EU Fact Check']	Fact Check: would the UK be better off leaving the EU?	May 6, 2015	None
50	No I don’t [accept that Labour overspent when it was last in power] … There was a global financial crisis which caused the deficit to rise. President Obama isn’t dealing with a high deficit because we built more schools and hospitals. He’s dealing with a high deficit because there was that global financial crisis.	If we knew that the financial crisis was about to happen then one could argue that Labour would have delayed some of the pre-crisis spending to help in buffering the impact of the recession. But this is easy to say with the benefit of hindsight. So on this basis, it is unfair to say that Labour “overspent”.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-did-labour-overspend-and-leave-a-deficit-that-was-out-of-control-41118	None	None	Ed Miliband, Labour leader, in BBC Question Time Election Leaders Special.	David Chivers	['Global financial crisis', 'Labour', 'structural deficit', 'Election factcheck', 'Ed Miliband', 'michael gove', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: did Labour overspend and leave a deficit that was out of control?	May 5, 2015	None
51	We’ve got to also help those people who are sleeping rough and their numbers are down under this government.	David Cameron’s claim that rough sleeper numbers “are down” under the coalition government is indefensible. Existing evidence indicates consistently that rough sleeper numbers in England have risen significantly since the coalition government came into power.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-the-number-of-rough-sleepers-gone-down-41048	None	None	David Cameron, prime minister, in answer to question from a member of the audience on BBC Newsbeat.	Sarah Johnsen	['David Cameron', 'Homeless', 'Election factcheck', 'Homelessness', 'Conservative', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: has the number of rough sleepers gone down?	May 4, 2015	None
52	In the last 12 months, reports of violent crime have gone up very substantially. It is a very significant increase in violent crime reported in the last 12 months.	Although the data is reasonably clear, the verdict is complicated. There is some evidence, albeit limited, of increased reports of violent crime, certainly domestic violence, over the past year. However, there is little evidence to support the claim more generally of reports of violent crime going up very substantially. Much more likely is that they are being recorded more accurately by the police.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-violent-crime-gone-up-40915	None	None	Yvette Cooper, Labour shadow home secretary, speaking on the Daily Politics Home Affairs debate.	Tim Newburn	['Crime', 'Labour', 'Liberal Democrats', 'Election factcheck', 'crime statistics', 'Fact Check UK', 'Yvette Cooper']	Fact Check: has violent crime gone up?	April 30, 2015	None
53	What I know is that there are about 12 times more people from advantaged, privileged backgrounds going to university than disadvantaged backgrounds and that isn’t good enough for me.	Our analysis suggests that, among state school students in England, those from the 20% most advantaged backgrounds are around three times more likely to go to university than state school students from the 20% least advantaged backgrounds – a lot less than the 12 times that Ed Miliband suggested. But they are also around nine times more likely to go to a Russell Group institution and around 50% more likely to receive a first or 2:1.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-disadvantaged-young-people-12-times-less-likely-to-go-to-university-40659	None	Education	Ed Miliband, Labour party leader, in an interview with Evan Davis on the BBC.	Claire Crawford	['Labour', 'education equity', 'Election factcheck', 'Ed Miliband', 'Free school meals', 'disadvantaged students', 'Education attainment', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: are disadvantaged young people 12 times less likely to go to university?	April 28, 2015	None
54	Even A&E where the pressure is at its greatest, we are seeing and treating people faster than any country anywhere in the world that measures A&E performance.	Regrettably Jeremy Hunt is not comparing like with like in his comparisons so his assertion of international excellence on A&E waiting times is dubious.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-aande-waiting-times-in-england-the-shortest-in-the-world-40774	None	Health + Medicine	Jeremy Hunt, health minister, speaking at the Health Debate election hustings, echoing comments he made in January on the NHS in England.	Peter Bradshaw	['Jeremy Hunt', 'NHS', 'Conservative Party', 'Accident and Emergency', 'emergency department hospital', 'Election factcheck', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: are A&E waiting times in England the shortest in the world?	April 27, 2015	None
55	There are … Germans, like the finance minister, who say that treaty change will be essential to secure Germany’s objectives around the governance of the eurozone. We believe that treaty change will have to happen, not just because of Britain’s demands, but because of the German requirements around governance of the eurozone. That gives us our opportunity.	While the current UK government might not be alone in wanting a treaty change, the practical hurdles standing in the way of this happening are of a scale that seriously undermines any faith that this might actually be attempted.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-does-any-country-in-europe-other-than-britain-want-to-renegotiate-the-eu-treaty-40739	None	None	Philip Hammond, Conservative foreign secretary, speaking during a BBC Daily Politics debate on foreign policy.	Anand Menon	['Eurozone', 'European Commission', 'Conservative Party', 'Euroscepticism', 'EU referendum', 'Election factcheck', 'UK foreign policy', 'Philip Hammond', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: does any country in Europe other than Britain want to renegotiate the EU treaty?	April 24, 2015	None
56	Renewable electricity has nearly trebled under this government.	Ed Davey’s claim that renewable electricity has almost trebled during the coalition’s term of office is accurate, but flaws in Britain’s feed-in tariff system mean that further expansion may be limited.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-the-amount-of-renewable-electricity-trebled-40666	None	Environment + Energy	Ed Davey, Liberal Democrat energy and climate change minister, during an environment debate held by the Daily Politics show.	Hugh Compston	['Electricity', 'Renewable energy', 'Liberal Democrats', 'Election factcheck', 'Ed Davey', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: has the amount of renewable electricity trebled?	April 23, 2015	None
57	In the last five years, austerity has undermined our public services, lowered the living standards of working people, pushed more children into poverty and held back economic growth.	Nicola Sturgeon’s statement on the economic impact of austerity on the UK is correct, with no qualifications.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-austerity-held-back-economic-growth-40578	None	Business + Economy	Nicola Sturgeon, Scottish first minister and Scottish National Party leader at the party’s manifesto launch.	Simon Wren-Lewis	['Austerity', 'SNP', 'Living standards', 'Election factcheck', 'Fiscal austerity', 'Nicola Sturgeon', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: has austerity held back economic growth?	April 21, 2015	None
58	We already spend 6% of our budget on defence. I think that that proportion can be spent more wisely.	The claim that the UK spends 6% of its budget on defence is on the low side and for 2013-14, it was actually 7%. Going by OBR estimations, the UK could spend 6% of its public expenditure for 2015-16 on defence. But usually, defence burdens are measured by the share of national output or GDP spent on defence, rather than shares of the national budget.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-how-much-of-the-uk-budget-is-spent-on-defence-40409	None	Business + Economy	Leanne Wood, Plaid Cymru leader, during the BBC Challenger’s debate	Keith Hartley	['Defence', 'Election factcheck', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Plaid Cymru', 'Fact Check UK', 'Leanne Wood']	Fact Check: how much of the UK budget is spent on defence?	April 20, 2015	None
59	Around 9,000 people die prematurely each year in the UK because they cannot afford to heat their homes. That’s more than the number killed on our roads, or through alcohol.	Scientific evidence proves that cold homes are associated with hypertension, which can lead to diseases such as heart disease and other chronic illnesses. But the numbers for the real impact of this in the UK are difficult to pin down.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-cold-homes-bigger-killers-than-road-accidents-or-alcohol-40194	None	Health + Medicine	Caroline Lucas, Green Party candidate for Brighton Pavilion, speaking at the launch of the Green party manifesto.	Ivy Shiue (Scthiue)	['Green Party', 'Election factcheck', 'Fuel poverty', 'Fact Check UK', 'Brighton constituency', 'Caroline Lucas']	Fact Check: are cold homes bigger killers than road accidents or alcohol?	April 16, 2015	None
60	Although we’ve had to make cuts in grant-in-aid, we’ve increased the amount of money going into the arts through the National Lottery. Take those two sums of money together, and you’ll see that roughly the same amount of money has gone into the arts as went into the arts at the peak of the last Labour government.	The veracity of Ed Vaizey’s claim hinges on his qualifier “roughly”: the figures show that more than £9m less is now being spent on the arts than at the peak of the last Labour government, and £103m less government or public money.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-arts-funding-been-decimated-or-protected-40037	None	Arts + Culture	Ed Vaizey, Conservative culture minister, in an interview on BBC Radio 4’s Front Row	Ben Walmsley	['Conservative Party', 'Election factcheck', 'Cultural policy', 'Arts funding', 'National Lottery', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: has arts funding been decimated or protected?	April 15, 2015	None
61	As a result of membership of the Common Fisheries Policy, we are now allowed to catch less than 20% of the fish that swim in British waters. The other 80% we have given away to the rest of Europe.	In 2015, the UK was allocated 30% of the EU quota for fishing ground stocks which occur in UK waters. The area of UK waters relative to other member states is certainly high, but the exact proportions depend on the region and which components of member state waters should be considered.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-80-of-uk-fish-given-away-to-the-rest-of-europe-39966	None	Environment + Energy	Nigel Farage, UKIP leader, on the campaign trail	Paul G Fernandes	['Fisheries', 'European Commission', 'UKIP', 'Nigel Farage', 'Election factcheck', 'Common Fisheries Policy', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK', 'EU Fact Check']	Fact Check: is 80% of UK fish given away to the rest of Europe?	April 14, 2015	None
62	There are now 116,000 non-doms. It is costing at least hundreds of millions of pounds to our country. And it cannot be justified. It makes Britain an offshore tax haven for a few.	Whether the proposed reform will generate “hundreds of millions of pounds” for the UK remains uncertain. Apart from the extreme response of leaving the UK, it is likely that the non-doms will pay accountants to avoid taxes. That will add to the existing costs of foregone revenue from and tax compliance of the non-doms, and therefore may result in loss of total revenue.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-would-abolishing-non-dom-status-raise-more-tax-39961	None	Business + Economy	Ed Miliband, Labour party leader in a speech at the University of Warwick	Sheikh Selim	['Tax avoidance', 'Labour Party', 'Election factcheck', 'Ed Miliband', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Tax Loopholes', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: would abolishing non-dom status raise more tax?	April 13, 2015	None
63	Government figures show 590 fewer GP practices now able to offer patients appointments on weekday evenings, Saturdays or Sundays, compared with 2010.	Neither party can claim the high ground in this argument. Labour complains that the Conservatives have abandoned its “extended hours” solution to the problem, which partly arose from the introduction of the 2004 GP contract. The Conservatives have countered by pointing out that alternative funding arrangements have been put in place. Meanwhile patient satisfaction with GP access has declined.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-it-now-harder-to-see-a-gp-39839	None	Health + Medicine	Labour party press release	Andrew Street	['Doctors', 'GP', 'NHS', 'Labour Party', 'after hours GP', 'Election factcheck', 'Fact Check UK', 'Andy Burnham']	Fact Check: is it now harder to see a GP?	April 9, 2015	None
64	We got rid of 20,000 bureaucrats in the NHS and put that money into 9,000 more doctors and 7,000 more nurses.	In summary, the coalition has changed the composition of the NHS workforce, getting rid of almost 20,000 managers and support staff. But Cameron has over-claimed the increase in front-line staff: the number of doctors has increased by 7,293 not 9,000 and the number of nurses by 6,434, not 7,000.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-there-more-nhs-doctors-and-nurses-than-before-the-coalition-39607	None	Health + Medicine	David Cameron, Conservative leader, during an interview on Channel 4/Sky News.	Andrew Street	['David Cameron', 'Doctors', 'NHS', 'Election factcheck', 'nurses', 'NHS staff', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Conservative', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: are there more NHS doctors and nurses than before the coalition?	April 2, 2015	None
65	One of my highlights of my time in coalition was … that the attainment gap, namely how well poor kids do in school as opposed to their wealthier classmates, was closing for the first time in a very long period of time and the reason why that appears to be the case, was because of the effect of policies like the pupil premium.	Overall Nick Clegg’s claim is a reasonable one: there has been some progress in “narrowing the gap”, particularly for children at primary school. But the DEMOS report also makes the point that a family’s level of income continues to remain a key predictor of their child’s educational success. This is still a significant challenge.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-the-pupil-premium-narrowing-the-attainment-gap-39601	None	Education	Nick Clegg, Liberal Democrat leader, on the Radio 4 Today programme.	Steve Higgins	['Nick Clegg', 'Liberal Democrats', 'Election factcheck', 'socioeconomic status', 'disadvantaged students', 'Education attainment', 'Pupil premium', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: is the pupil premium narrowing the attainment gap?	April 1, 2015	None
66	Abolish the Bedroom Tax, which has hit over half a million people, two thirds of them disabled, pushing many into debt and through the doors of food banks.	The claim that at least half a million people have had their payments reduced as a result of the bedroom tax checks out. There is not enough data to establish whether the second claim – that two-thirds of these are people with a disability – is correct, although it is consistent with the government’s own 2012 Equality Impact Assessment projections.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-who-has-been-hit-hardest-by-the-bedroom-tax-39414	None	Politics + Society	Part of Labour’s five-point plan to reduce dependency on food banks.	Duncan McVicar	['Welfare', 'Disability', 'Bedroom tax', 'Labour Party', 'Election factcheck', 'Benefits', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: who has been hit hardest by the bedroom tax?	March 31, 2015	None
67	Over the last year, the north grew faster than the south.	We are not yet able to judge whether the regions in the north of England grew faster in terms of the value of their output last year (2014) as we haven’t got the data. Results for earlier years suggest this may have been the case. Employment data for 2014 show a jobs recovery in some northern regions, but substantial variations within both the north and south and continuing strong growth in London. What is clear is that the recession has intensified a pattern of uneven regional growth.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-the-north-of-england-growing-faster-than-the-south-39100	None	Business + Economy	George Osborne, chancellor of the exchequer, in his Budget speech.	Peter Sunley	['George Osborne', 'UK economy', 'Election factcheck', 'Regional development', 'North England', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK', 'UK Budget 2015']	Fact Check: Is the north of England growing faster than the south?	March 25, 2015	None
68	We are celebrating the 2.1m apprenticeship starts since 2010 and the positive impact they are having on businesses around the country.	Cable’s figure of 2.1m apprenticeship “starts” (registrations) is factually correct, but as we’ve argued, the figures are misleading. It isn’t possible to say with certainty that 2.1m registrations equals 2.1m people. The bigger underlying problem is what counts as an apprenticeship. We need to know much more about what converted apprentices and particularly those who’ve been in a job for many years are actually learning.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-the-coalition-really-created-2-1m-apprenticeships-38815	None	Business + Economy	Vince Cable, Liberal Democrat business secretary, during National Apprenticeship Week	Lorna Unwin	['Apprenticeships', 'Election factcheck', 'Vince Cable', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: has the coalition really created 2.1m apprenticeships?	March 23, 2015	None
69	In total, renewing Trident will cost around £100 billion, at 2012 prices, over the next 35 years … It will take up almost a tenth of the UK’s annual defence budget – and around a quarter of the capital budget for the period from 2018 to 2030.	Nicola Sturgeon’s estimate for the total cost of renewing the nuclear force is generally accurate. This estimate is based on the Trident Commission’s report figures of a £2.9 billion average annual cost (in 2012 figures) and an average of 9.4% of the total defence budget annually. If one takes the £2.9 billion annual cost and multiplies this by 35 years you reach a figure of £101.5 billion.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-will-renewing-trident-cost-100-billion-39002	None	Business + Economy	Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s first minister, at a talk at the London School of Economics	Simon J Smith	['Defence', 'Nuclear weapons', 'Scotland', 'Trident', 'Election factcheck', 'Scottish National Party', 'Nicola Sturgeon', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: will renewing Trident cost £100 billion?	March 19, 2015	None
70	The success of the Troubled Families programme in turning around the lives of more than 105,000 families so far while saving taxpayers an estimated £1.2 billion in the process is proof that we can do more with less.	There is not enough evidence to determine if the government’s claim is correct. It is true that 105,000 families have been helped in some way, and I have calculated that the government has contributed about £400 million so far, out of the £448 million promised. While the resource savings might be of the order of £1.2 billion, there is still a great deal of uncertainty around this estimate.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-the-troubled-families-programme-saved-1-2-billion-38999	None	Politics + Society	Chief secretary to the Treasury, Danny Alexander in a press release following a statement to the house of commons by Eric Pickles, secretary of state for communities and local government.	Michael Barrow	['Election factcheck', 'Danny Alexander', 'UK government', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: Has the Troubled Families programme saved £1.2 billion?	March 18, 2015	None
71	When the Liberal Democrats took the decision to step up to the plate and enter government in May 2010, Britain’s economy was on the brink … It may not feel like it now but we could have been Greece. In 2010, their deficit was 11% of GDP, ours was 10%.	The raw numbers on the deficit comparison stand up to scrutiny, but the idea that the UK was at risk of a similar fate to Greece ignores a host of  structural, and macroeconomic differences. The divergence is starkly obvious when you look at the World Bank’s government effectiveness indicator, one of several key factors which the market uses to price debt.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-was-the-uk-ever-likely-to-end-up-like-greece-38799	None	Business + Economy	Nick Clegg, Deputy Prime Minister, speaking on March 9	Gabriella Legrenzi	['Politics', 'Economics', 'Greece', 'Macroeconomics', 'Nick Clegg', 'Election factcheck', 'factcheck', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: was the UK ever likely to end up like Greece?	March 18, 2015	None
72	It has been estimated that entrenching market structures in the NHS, for example through tendering, bidding and contracting to the private sector, costs over £10 billion a year. Why does the prime minister not think that that money would be better spent on patient care?	Attributing £10 billion of expenditure to the extra cost of running the NHS as a “market” is not strictly true. While the management and administration costs of running a market-based system are undoubtedly higher than those in an administered system, the comparison made in the claim does not actually measure this difference.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-has-turning-the-nhs-into-a-market-cost-10-billion-38735	None	Health + Medicine	Caroline Lucas, Green party MP for Brighton, at prime minister’s questions.	Maria Goddard	['Health economics', 'Green Party', 'NHS', 'Election factcheck', 'Fact Check UK', 'Brighton constituency', 'Caroline Lucas']	Fact Check: has turning the NHS into a market cost £10 billion?	March 16, 2015	None
73	Free schools are having an important effect on collaboration and raising standards in nearby schools … We can see free schools are both popular but they’re also effective.	There is no empirical basis for Morgan’s statements. It is neither definitely untrue nor definitely true. There are reasons for scepticism, but there is simply insufficient evidence to establish any of the three claims for wider local spill-overs, for popularity nor for effectiveness.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-free-schools-raising-education-standards-38547	None	Education	Nicky Morgan, secretary of state for education	Simon Burgess	['School choice', 'Election factcheck', 'free schools', 'Education attainment', 'Nicky Morgan', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: are free schools raising education standards?	March 10, 2015	None
74	Just think on this: in what is already the most crowded country in Europe … we have to build one new dwelling every seven minutes just to cope with current rates of immigration.	The statement by UKIP’s Nigel Farage that the UK is “the most crowded country in Europe” and “one dwelling must be built every seven minutes just to cope with the current rates of immigration” is partly untrue.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-is-the-uk-the-most-crowded-country-in-europe-38468	None	Business + Economy	Nigel Farage, UKIP leader	Catherine Harris	['Housing', 'UKIP', 'Nigel Farage', 'Election factcheck', 'UK migration', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: is the UK the most crowded country in Europe?	March 9, 2015	None
75	Cutting the foreign aid budget to the same percentage of GNI [gross national income] as that contributed by America, [saves] up to another £11bn.	The statement by UKIP’s Suzanne Evans that cutting foreign aid spending to US levels would save the UK £11 billion is not true. Using both data from the OECD and the UK government, the highest likely saving would be just over £9 billion. Cutting aid to US levels would also leave the UK below many other OECD countries in terms of volume in $US spent on overseas assistance.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-would-cutting-international-aid-to-us-levels-save-11-billion-38322	None	Politics + Society	Suzanne Evans, UKIP deputy chairman, at the party’s spring conference	Oliver Morrissey	['Development', 'Aid', 'Foreign aid', 'UKIP', 'Election factcheck', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: would cutting international aid to US levels save £11 billion?	March 4, 2015	None
77	Mare Nostrum was a genuine attempt by the Italians to deal with this problem, but I think I am right in saying that more people died during the operation of that policy than when it was brought to an end.	David Cameron’s statement is disingenuous because he is comparing a year’s worth of migration with four months’ worth. But early figures show that more lives have been lost in the first months of this year compared to the first months of Mare Nostrum.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-was-italys-flagship-immigration-project-a-failure-38128	None	Politics + Society	David Cameron at Prime Minister’s Questions	Helen O'Nions	['Politics', 'Migration', 'David Cameron', 'Italy', 'Election factcheck', 'Immigration policy', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK']	Fact Check: was Italy’s flagship immigration project a failure?	March 1, 2015	None
78	It takes on average a British worker to Friday to do what equivalent workers in Germany and France will complete by the end of Thursday afternoon.	It’s true to say that on the basis of GDP per hour, British workers are less productive than those in Germany and France, so much so that they would finish by Thursday what a Brit would do by Friday. But as UK employees work more hours over the year than those in France and Germany, and there is a high rate of employment, it’s important to put these numbers in context.	https://theconversation.com/fact-check-are-british-workers-less-productive-than-germans-and-french-37829	None	Business + Economy	Chuka Umunna, Labour’s shadow business secretary	John Van Reenen	['Employment', 'Productivity', 'Jobs', 'Election factcheck', 'UK General Election 2015', 'Fact Check UK', 'Chuka Umunna']	Fact Check: are British workers less productive than Germans and French?	February 24, 2015	None
